# State and Props

## React Lifecycle

In React, components can be classes or functions. The methods used on these components are called lifecycle events and can be called during the lifecycle of the a component and allow the UI and application states to update.

The three phases of a component lifecycle are Mounting, Updating, and Unmounting.

Mounting is when the component is being created and inserted to the DOM. It happens in the order of *constructor*, *static getDerivedStateFromProps*, *render*, *componentDidMount*, and *UNSAFE_componentWillMount*

* Constructor: called before it is mounted. If component is a subclass then `super(props)` should be called or props will be undefined. `this.state` can be used to assigning state or to bind event handlers to an instance. The use of `this.setState` should be avoided because it can cause side effects because it will ignore all props updates.

* `static getDerivedStateFromProps`: used in rare cases when the state relies on the changes in props over time

* `render()`: only required method in class component. Looks at `this.props` and `this.state` when called. The component state should not be modified when this function is called because it can cause bugs when rerendered. This function should NOT interact with the browser. NOTE: render() will not be invoked if `shouldComponentUpdate()` returns false.

* `componentDidMount()`: the method is invoked as soon as component is mounted. Anything that needs a network request or initialize DOM should go in this method. Also subscriptions can be set up here. Unsubscribe goes in `componentWillUnmount()`. `setState()` can be called but do not use it too much because it will cause a rerender.

Updating happens when a component is updated or a state changes when it is rerendered. It happens in the order of static *getDerivedStateFromProps*, *shouldComponentUpdate*, *componentDidUpdate*, *UNSAFE_componentWillUpdate*, *UNSAFE_componentWillReceiveProps*

* `shouldCOmponentUpdate(): has a default behavior to rerender after every state change and setting this to false will stop the rerendering from happening to optimize performance. Always ensure to perform a shallow comparison of props ans state with the previous one. If the value of this method returns false, then UNSAFE_componentWillUpdate(), render(), and componentDidUpdate() will NOT be invoked

* `getSnapshotBeforeUpdate()` is rarely used and allows a capture of the DOM to check before anything is changed.

* `componentDidUpdate()` performs network requests after a change happens

Unmounting is the final phase of the lifecycle when a component is being removed from the DOM. the only event is *componentWillUnmount*

* `componentWillUpdate` allows the cleanup of the DOM and network requests and subscriptions

The UNSAFE LifeCycle Events lead to a lot of bugs and unintentional error and must be used with UNSAFE tag in from. There are alternate 

****Questions****

1. Based off the diagram, what happens first, the ‘render’ or the ‘componentDidMount’?
    * In the Mounting phase, render happens fist then componentDidMount.
2. What is the very first thing to happen in the lifecycle of React?
    * The constructor is called first
3. Put the following things in the order that they happen: `componentDidMount`,`render`, `constructor`, `componentWillUnmount`, `React Updates`
    * It happens in the order of *constructor*, *static getDerivedStateFromProps*, *render*, *componentDidMount*
4.What does componentDidMount do?
    * componentDidMount() invokes as soon as the component is mounted and it handles all network request and subscription setups.

## React State vs Props

Props are like arguments to a function. Props are passed into function to initialize component to. Props can be used to display something to use. Changes that occur

Props are passed into a component and updates are handled outside the component. State is something INSIDE the component. Updates happen inside the component.

When the state is changed within an application it rerenders within the application. When props is changed, it happens outside the components

Something that does not need to change, props is best. State is best for when something needs to be rerendered and updated.

State is useful inside a form to update the values. If info is handled outside the component then use props; if it is used inside the component then use state. Props are passed down from a parent.

****Questions****

1. What types of things can you pass in the props?
    * Data that does not need to change or needs updating.
2. What is the big difference between props and state?
    * Props used outside the component and passed into a component, whereas state happens within the component.
3. When do we re-render our application?
    * When something has an update to the initial data
4. What are some examples of things that we could store in state?
    * A counter is something that can be stored in state as well as a timestamp or updates to monthly expenses

## Things I Want To Know More About
