# Class 301-01 Reading Notes

## Component-Based Architecture

Looks the decomposition of the design and allows the problems to be divided into individual functional or logical components to ensure that components can be reused. The components expose well-defined communication interfaces containing methods, events, and properties.

Component-oriented software design is advantageous over traditional OOP because it reuses existing components thus decreasing time in market and producing increased reliability.

A component is a software object that has well developed functionality and intended for reuse without modifying other components. Each component can be modified independently and used in multiple configurations in multiple applications.

Component Views

1. Object-Oriented View
    * the component is looked at as a set of one or more cooperating classes where the problem domain class and infrastructure are explained to identify all attributes that apply
2. Conventional View
    * functional element that integrates the logic, internal data structures, and the invocation to be enabled.
3. Process-Related View
    * builds from existing components maintained in a library.

Characteristics of Components

1. Reusability
    * components are designed to be reused
2. Replaceable
    * can be substituted with other components
3. Not Context Specific
    * designed to operate in different environments and context
4. Extensible
    * can be extended from existing components to give a new behavior
5. Encapsulated
    * a component depicts the interfaces and do not expose the details of the internal variables or state
6, Independent
    * components are designed to not be dependent on other components

a component-level design can be represented by using something that can be translated into code. Data structures, interfaces, and algorithms go well with the guidelines to help prevent errors. The system is broken down into reusable, cohesive, and encapsulated units. Each component has its own interface that specifies tis ports and hides its implementation. A component should be extended without needing to modify other areas of the code. Components typically do not depend on other components, those that do are specified by the interaction type.

Component-level design create a way to name components that are part of the architectural model.

Conducting component-level design recognizes all design classes relate to the problem domain. All design classes correspond to the infrastructure domain. Has a description for all design classes that do not have reusable components.

Advantages include ease of deployment, reduced cost, ease of development, reusable, modification of technical complexity, reliability, system maintenance and evolution, and independence.

**Questions:**

1. What is a “component”?
    * A component is a flexible and reusable object that speeds up application creation and delivery. Typically a plug and play type of code.
2. What are the characteristics of a component?
    * Reusable, Replaceable, Non-Context Specific, Extendable, Encapsulate, and Independent
3. What are the advantages of using component-based architecture?
    * faster development time, reduced cost, improved scalability, and better quality.

## What is Props and how to Use it in React

React is a component-based library that uses props to pass data between the components. Here, the data is passed in a uni-directional flow from parent to child.

The data in props is read-only.

Steps to use Props:

1. Define the attribute and its value (data)
2. Then pass it to child components by using Props
3. Render the Props Data

Props are passed similar to how arguments are passed in a function.

A prop is an Object and can be accessed with dot notation

**Questions:**

1. What is “props” short for?
    * properties
2. How are props used in React?
    * It is used to pass data between components.
3. What is the flow of props?
    * The flow is in one direction, from parent to child.

## Things I Want To Know More About

I would like to learn more about using props in React in general.
