# CRUD

## Status Codes Based on REST Methods

Status codes are used to respond to clients; some APIs have their own error codes.

a status code is a number higher than 100 but lower than 600 and is part of an HTTP response. The first digit defines the class

any class above 599 is a custom class and are not usually permitted

C.reate R.ead U.pdate D.elete (CRUD) defines the basic API actions for persistent storage

CREATE is usually implemented on the `POST` method and are used to create new resources or access tokens in RESTful APIs. Status code 200(OK) lets the client know everything went good and is used as a status for creating endpoint accessibility. 201(Created) fits create operations and signals the backend; include in the URL to the resource in the response body. 202(Accepted) is used in async processing; processing is valid but will finish in the future. 303(See Other) similar to 202; usually used for POST requests

READ is implemented by `GET` and fetches resource representation. It has 200, 206 (Partial Content), lists of content too big to be delivered in one response and is used with `Range` header field in the request; 300(Multiple Choice)-used for multiple representations of one resource whereas the client has to choose one. 308 (Permanent Redirect) that tells the client to use another URL to access the resource. 304 (Not Modified) - similar to 200 but does not have a body so the client is redirected to the local cache of the representation of a previous read.

UPDATE is implemented by `PUT` or `PATCH` and use case depends on the amount of data the client has to send to the backend. Put uses the entire representation and Patch requires parts for updates. It has 200 which is most appropriate. 204 when there is no content, and 202 when the update is done asynchronously

DELETE is implemented with with the `DELETE` method. It uses 200, 204(most fitting), and 202.

APIs wil eventually change it's structure; 307 and 308 redirects works best for this.

500 and 404 are the most common used status codes for errors. 500 is Internal Server Error and that is on the backend; 400-499 is issues with the client and the backend tried to validate what is on the frontend but the issue can be on the backend. Wrong URL can use 404 (not found), 405 (method not allowed), 501 (not implemented), 406 (not accepted), 410 (gone), 414 (request-URI too long), 308 (perm redirect), 307 (temp redirect). No Permissions 401 (Unauthorized), 403 (Forbidden) and 404 (Not Found)

1. In your own words, describe what each group of status code represents:
    * 100’s = Used to inform the client that header of the request is received and the server will attempt to comply
    * 200’s = Used to inform the client of an accepted request
    * 300’s = Used to inform the client of redirection because the resource it wants is not available at the expected location
    * 400’s = Used to inform the client of an invalid request to the server in the form of an error
    * 500’s = Used for server errors for servers that are overwhelmed or unreachable
2. What is a status code 202?
    * 202(Accepted) is used in async processing; processing is valid but will finish in the future (promise).
3. What is a status code 308?
    * 308 (Permanent Redirect) that tells the client to use another URL to access the resource
4. What code would you use if an update didn’t return data to a client?
    * 204 No Content
5. What code would you use if a resource used to exist but no longer does?
    * 308 Permanent Redirect
6. What is the ‘Forbidden’ status code?
    * 403

## Build A REST API with Node.js, Express, & MongoDb - Quick

[Starting Baseline Code](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fgTGADljAeg)

1. Why do we need to pull our MongoDB database string out of our server and put it into our .env?
    * In order to use something different than the localhost when the application is deployed
2. What is middleware?
    * Code that runs when the server gets a request but before it is passed to the routes
3. What does app.use(express.json()) do?
    * Allows the server to accept JSON as a body instead of a POST or GET element
4. What does the /:id mean in a route?
    * It is now a parameter and allows access to everything after first slash
5. What is the difference between PUT and PATCH?
    * PUT is all the info and PATCH is part of the info
6. How do you make a default value in a schema?
    * Set the default when creating the model Schema
7. What does a 500 error status code mean?
    * It represents and error on the server in which the transaction did not work outside the client user
8. What is the difference between a status 200 and a status 201?
    * 201 means successfully created an object and 200 is default means and the connection is established

## Things I Want To Know More About
