# Class 301-03 Reading Notes

## React - Lists and Keys

`map()` function loops through an array and creates a new array from an existing array. The function is executed for every item in the array

Lists could be rendered inside a component

A `key` is a special string  attribute that is needed when creating lists of elements.

keys help identif8y which items have changed, which are added, or are removed. The keys should be given to the elements inside the array to give the elements a stable identity. The best way to use a key is to use a string that has a unique identity; i.e. an ID on the data. Item index can be used as a last resort only if the order of items will not change because it can impact the state. React's default uses index as the key.

**Questions:**

1. What does .map() return?
    * `.map()` returns an array from the array it loops through
2. If I want to loop through an array and display each value in JSX, how do I do that in React?
    * Start by creating a function that will put the parameter you assigned the mapped array to in curly braces {} and then enclosing that in an `<li>` element.
3. Each list item needs a unique ____.
    * ID for the use of the `key`
4. What is the purpose of a key?
    * The purpose of a key is to correctly identify an item within amongst siblings in order to properly match the children on the DOM tree. It keeps everything in order.

## The Spread Operator

the spread operator is used for adding items to arrays, combining arrays or objects, and spreading an array out into a function's arguments.

The syntax: `...` and it spreads the array into separate arguments. `...` can also copy an array, combine arrays, use the Math functions, make an array an argument in a function, add an item to a list, add to a React state, combine object, and convert NodeList into an array.

The syntax basically expands an iterable object (like an array) and can but used on any interable (like a string).

**Questions:**

1. What is the spread operator?
    * The syntax is `...`
2. List 4 things that the spread operator can do.
    * The spread operator can combine two arrays, add a new item to an array, combine two objects into one, and allow an array to be used as an argument in a function.
3. Give an example of using the spread operator to combine two arrays.
    * Combining Arrays:  
            let myArr = [1,2,3]
            let thatArr = [4,5,6]
            let comboArr = [...myArr, ...thatArr]
4. Give an example of using the spread operator to add a new item to an array.
    * Add New Item to Array:  
            let herArr = [4,5,6]
            let hisArr = [1,2,3,...herArr]
5. Give an example of using the spread operator to combine two objects into one.
    * Combine Objects:  
            let thisObj = {place: 1}
            let thatObj = {place: 2}
            let newObj = {...thisObj, ...thatObj, place:3}

## Pass Functions Between Components in React

**Questions**

1. In the video, what is the first step that the developer does to pass functions between components?
    * Creates a function that will loop through the state object array
2. In your own words, what does the `increment` function do?
    * The increment function take name as a parameter from and then sets another variable that is a `map()` function that will loop through the state | people key and look at the value object for the name. Every time the name is shown, the count will increase by one. This new count is then returning into the variable that the map function was set to. Outside of this function but within the increment function, the stat is changed to the object that keeps that people key and the value changes to the value of the variable.
3. How can you pass a method from a parent component into a child component?
    * You can reference the method in the parent object with `this.*method*` and then go to the child and invoke it as a `this.props.*name*`
4. How does the child component invoke a method that was passed to it from a parent component?
    * The method can be invoked with a `this.props.*name*` from the parent


## Things I Want To Know More About
