# MongoDB and Mongoose

## NoSQL vs SQL

SQL is a relational database where NoSQL is a non-relational database. NoSQL uses key/value pairs, graphs, or column stores to store data. SQL uses tables which have a specific number of rows governed by a schema and NoSQL does not which is why one is better vertically scalable and the other is horizontally scalable.

SQL is good for complexity and are powerful. NoSQL is better for hierarchical data because the use of key/value pairs and are better for large data set. SQL is better for heavy duty transactions whereas NoSQL is suitable for high traffic.

SQL emphasizes on Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, and Durability (ACID) where NoSQL emphasizes on Consistency, Availability, and Partition tolerance (CAP). SQL is either closed source or open source/ NoSQL is classified based on how the data is stored.

**Questions:**

1. Fill in the chart below with five differences between SQL and NoSQL databases:
    * |SQL                   | NoSQL                   |
      |:--------------------:|:------------------------|
      |data is related       | data is not stored in a related way|
      |table based           | document based|
      |uses schema           | schema-less|
      |vertically scalable   | horizontally scalable|
      |uses SQL for data     | language to access database varies|
2. What kind of data is a good fit for an SQL database?
    *
3. Give a real world example.
    *
4. What kind of data is a good fit a NoSQL database?
    *
5. Give a real world example.
    *
6. Which type of database is best for hierarchical data storage?
    *
7. Which type of database is best for scalability?
    *

## SQL vs NoSQL (Video)

MySQL or MongoDB

SQL is not a database and stands for Structured Query Language. SQL allows you to write database queries. there are syntax keywords and parameters: i.e.
>         SELECT id, name, price FROM products

The there are commands for retrieving, updating, creating tables, joining tables. Databases are typically relational. Relational databases typically works with certain assumptions and supports the use of the language. Relational databases used tables to store data and there are strict requirements on what data is stored. Every new row is a record and has values for the fields.

All data in the SQL table has to abide by the schema (strict rules). In SQL tables are related. The row is a record that value for the fields and the fields must all have the same exact length; the field can be null but it must exist. Multiple tables are usually used together. There are many types of relations; one-to-one where one table has the id from another table; one-to-many is another relation type where many tables use the id from one table; there is also many-to-many where there is a table that uses the id of many other tables to relate them. `join` can be used to get the connected data in one result

MongoDB is NoSQL and has a database of collections. In the collections, there are documents that could equate to rows in tables; they typically use JSON. NoSQL does not use the same schema as SQL so the data does not have to have the same info length. NoSQL is flexible and does not have relations unless it is done manually but is not relied upon. All the info can be in one place. Data can be duplicated where it is good for reads than it is for writes.

The type of app determines which is better; if the application is big enough then both databases are used.

Scaling horizontally is done by adding more servers; this adds more power. It is not used often because the data cannot be split across servers effectively. In vertical scaling, more power is added to a single server but there is always a limit to what can be added to a single server. NoSQL can be split horizontally because of the way the data is stored in a non related way. Horizontal scaling is a lot easier because the data can be split and brought back together. This is good for speed but not good for accuracy because the data called may not have what is being searched for. Scaling with SQL is what makes it difficult.

NoSQL is schema-less and can help read a lot but is it not good with writing multiple requests. The data can be duplicated because of this.

If data is queried a lot, it should be put on the same page.

**Questions:**

1. What does SQL stand for?
    * SQL is an acronym for Structure Query Language
2. What is a relational database?
    * A relational database supports SQL, works with tables, and the data is related.
3. What type of structure does a relational database work with?
    * The structure is a table.
4. What is a ‘schema’?
    * Schema are strict rules that the database follows for that data and is defined by fields.
5. What is a NoSQL database?
    * It is a non-relational database that does not have a set a rules (schema) it has to abide by.
6. How does it work?
    * Data is stored by what is needed vs having a set number of data cells.
7. What is inside of a MongoDB database?
    * MongoDB is a NoSQL database with one or more collection(s) of non-related data
8. Which is more flexible - SQL or MongoDB? and why.
    * MongoDB is more flexible because it does not have the schema and data can all be put in one place vs various tables; all the data in the same place.
9. What is the disadvantage of a NoSQL database?
    * Data is not related so that when it is called for, it may not contained what is being searched for.

## Things I Want To Know More About
