# Authentication

## OAuth

[What is OAuth?](https://www.csoonline.com/article/3216404/what-is-oauth-how-the-open-authorization-framework-works.html)

**Questions:**

1. What is OAuth?
    * An open-standard authorization protocol that states how unrelated servers and services can authenticate access to other sites without sharing the initial SSO credential.
2. Give an example of what using OAuth would look like.
    * An example is when we signed up for a site but we used out GitHub or Google account to log in.
3. How does OAuth work? What are the steps that it takes to authenticate the user?
    * The steps from the article are as followed:

>        1. The first website connects to the second website on behalf of the user, using OAuth, providing the user’s verified identity.
>        2. The second site generates a one-time token and a one-time secret unique to the transaction and parties involved.
>        3. The first site gives this token and secret to the initiating user’s client software.
>        4. The client’s software presents the request token and secret to their authorization provider (which may or may not be the second site).
>        5. If not already authenticated to the authorization provider, the client may be asked to authenticate. After authentication, the client is asked to approve the authorization transaction to the second website.
>        6. The user approves (or their software silently approves) a particular transaction type at the first website.
>        7. The user is given an approved access token (notice it’s no longer a request token).
>        8. The user gives the approved access token to the first website.
>        9. The first website gives the access token to the second website as proof of authentication on behalf of the user.
>        10. The second website lets the first website access their site on behalf of the user.
>        11. The user sees a successfully completed transaction occurring.

4. What is OpenID?
    * Allows the use of an existing account to sign into another account and is part of the authentication process.

## Authorization and Authentication Flows

[Authentication and Authentication Flows](https://auth0.com/docs/get-started/authentication-and-authorization-flow)

**Questions:**

1. What is the difference between authorization and authentication?
    * Authorization is for access and authentication is for verification of an end user.
2. What is Authorization Code Flow?
    * it exchanges an authorization code for a token
3. What is Authorization Code Flow with Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE)?
    * In the authentication process additional security is required so the PKCE is used.
4. What is Implicit Flow with Form Post?
    * It is used for public or shared devices because they cannot store client secrets.
5. What is Client Credentials Flow?
    * This used for machine-to-machine applications for authentication and authorization.
6. What is Device Authorization Flow?
    * This asks the user  to go to a link on the computer or phone and authorize the device
7. What is Resource Owner Password Flow?
    * Requests tat users provide credentials


## Things I Want To Know More About
