# Class Functional Programming

## Functional Programming Concepts

If a function reads external files, it is not a pure function because the file contents can change. Any function that relies on a random number generator cannot be pure.

Pure functions are stable, consistent, and predictable. They are usually easier to test

If immutable data needs to be changed, a new object needs to be created with the new value. (`for` loop has mutable abilities)

pure functions + immutable data = referential transparency

functions as first-class entities is the idea to treat functions as values and pass functions like data. This allows different functions to be combined and create new functions with new behavior.

A higher-order function takes one or more functions as arguments or returns a functions as a result.

**Questions:**

1. What is functional programming?
    * A paradigm of building computer programs using expressions and functions without mutating state and data
2. What is a pure function and how do we know if something is a pure function?
    * A pure function returns the result if given the same arguments and it does not have any observable side effects.
3. What are the benefits of a pure function?
    * They are easy to test,
4. What is immutability?
    * Where the state of the data cannot change after it is created.
5. What is Referential transparency?
    * When an expression can be replaced with its corresponding value or another referentially transparent call without changing the behavior of the program (get the same result).

## Node JS for Beginners - Modules and require()

In Node.js developers split code up into modules; a different module for bits of code that does different things that can be used in.

`require('./<path-to-file>')` allows the use of modules in different areas of the application. It is used on the global object in Node.js. Now the new file has required the other JS file.

using `require()` is the first step and does not mean the other file's code will work in the new file. In the original module, it has to be explicitly stated which part of the module will be used in the new file. `module.export = function;` is what will be used to determine which part of the code will be used in `require()` on the other file.

the `require()` needs to be set to a variable so that it can be used in the nw file.

**Questions:**

1. What is a module?
    * Code functionality organized into JavaScript files that can be reused throughout the application
2. What does the word ‘require’ do?
    * `require()` includes the external modules to exist in separate files
3. How do we bring another module into the file the we are working in?
    * The part of the file needs to be exported with `module.exports = functionToExport;`. Then on the new file where we want to use that part of the module you use `require('./<path-to-module>')`
4. What do we have to do to make a module available?
    * In order to make it available, the `require()` has to be set to a variable

## Things I Want To Know More About
