# Class React and Forms

## React Forms

React forms are not like DOM and HTML elements because they keep some internal state

the mutable state is put in the state property of components and updated with `setState()`

`<input>`, `textarea`, and `<select>` maintain their own state and update the state based on user input. A value attribute can be used but an onChange must be used in conjunction within the root of the tag

An input form element whose value is controlled by React where as the form controls what happens in that form from user input is called a controlled component. In a controlled component, the input's value is always driven by the react state. With `<input>` type attribute is set on the root along with value.

`<textarea>` defines the text by children in a value attribute (written within the bracket). The value is state can be set and then called like `<textarea value={this.state.value}>`; here the text area starts with whatever is in the state value in the constructor

`<select>` uses a value attribute on the root select tag. Same as `<textarea>` above. In all, an array can be passed into the value attribute which gives options for the `<select>` tag

**Questions**

1. What is a ‘Controlled Component’?
    * In a controlled component, the input's value is always driven by the react state.
2. Should we wait to store the users responses from the form into state when they submit the form OR should we update the state with their responses as soon as they enter them? Why.
    * Wait because you do not want to pass undefined or null values into controlled components or an error will show.
3. How do we target what the user is entering if we have an event handler on an input field?
    * Use JSX

## Conditional (Ternary) Operator

can perform an if statement in one line of code. The resulse of the condition should be true or false. 

syntax for ternary operator is (W(hat)T(rue do this)F(alse do this)):

>        condition ? value if true : value if false

Anything between the ? and : is executable if the value is true and anything after the : is executed if the condition is false

ternary operators can be nested; here is the example:

>        let isStudent = false;
>        let isSenior = false;
>        let price = isStudent ? 8 : isSenior ? 6 : 10
>        console.log (price); 
>        //6

Based off WTF, the price is written as WTTF

Also, multiple operations can be done. Each operation must be separated with a comma

**Questions**

1. Why would we use a ternary operator?
    * It takes a multi-lined if/else statement and turns it into one line. Therefore, it can execute code faster.
2. Rewrite the following statement using a ternary statement:

>        if(x===y){
>          console.log(true);
>        } else {
>          console.log(false);
>        }

    * variable = x===y ? console.log(true) : console.log(false)

## Things I Want To Know More About
