# Putting it All Together

## Thinking in React

The jest of React is to break everthing into Components, create states (changing) parts for each component, the to connect the Components together (with props).

A good mock up with the design split can prove to be a great reference for the Components. The components can be broken into programming components, css, and design. A Component hierarchy can be created to help streamline the components.

Then build the static version is a great way to see the application because it is easier and more manual labor of typing. Props are a way to reuse components because the data can be passed with props.

Building an app from the top component to the bottom of the tree is called one-way directional flow.

state is used for interactivity and changes. It typically does not repeat and usually and minimal representation. In order to make sure something is NOT a state verify that it does not change, is can come from a parent with props, or it can be computed with another state or props in the component.

Now the state's parent must be identified since React has one-way data flow. To know where the state goes: find every component that renders something with the state, find the closes common parent or grandparent, or create a new component to hold the state.

Inverse data flow is explicit and needs to be stated in the code

**Questions:**

1. What is the single responsibility principle and how does it apply to components?
    * The idealogy that components should only do one thing.
2. What does it mean to build a ‘static’ version of your application?
    * The static version is a version that does not have any interactivity. Just data that displays an styling to that data.
3. Once you have a static application, what do you need to add?
    * After creating the static Components with props, interactivity needs to be added with state.
4. What are the three questions you can ask to determine if something is state?
    * Does it change?; It is passed from parent with props? Can it be calculated with state or props that already exist?
5. How can you identify where state needs to live?
    * It can live in the common parent of the components that will use the state. the component above common parent, or own component.

## Higher-Order Functions

> Size almost always involves complexity, and complexity confuses programmers. Confused programmers, in turn, introduce mistakes (bugs) into programs. A large program then provides a lot of space for these bugs to hide, making them hard to find.

Abstractions hide the details and give the ability to talk about problems at a more abstract level. This can be applied to programming where data is push out on the page with a low level of abstraction

Plain functions are a good way to build abstractions.

a high-order function takes another function as an argument or as a return. They allow programmers to abstract over actions and can be functions that change other functions, functions that provide new types of flow control, built in loop methods (i.e. `.forEach()`)

high-order functions do very well in data processing.

**Questions:**

1. What is a “higher-order function”?
    * A function that takes another function as an argument or returned value
2. Explore the greaterThan function as defined in the reading. In your own words, what is line 2 of this function doing?
    * Line 2 is returning the boolean value of the arrow function for m
3. Explain how either map or reduce operates, with regards to higher-order functions.
    * `.map()` builds a new array by looping through each item in the array and performing the set function on each item and returning the item value. The returned item value is what goes into the new array.

## Things I Want To Know More About
