# NODE.JS

## Intro to Node.js

Node.js is a program that can be used to execute JavaScript on the computer (JS runtime).

nmp is a package manager that comes with Node. The author recommends to install all versions of node so that version control can be maintained over projects. The version on the machine can be checked with node -v in the terminal

Node supports the most modern version of JavaScript (ES6) so compatibility issues are not prevalent. Packages can be installed locally to a particular project.

NPM is the package manager for JavaScript but also is the world's largest software registry.

Node and npm can be used for a host of things including bundling JavaScript files and dependencies into static assets, running tests, automatic code linting and style checking, to even building apps with modern frameworks.

Node is single-threaded and event-driven meaning that everything happens in reaction to an event. Node uses JSON which is one of the top data exchange formats on the web.

**Questions:**

1. What is node.js?
    * Node.js is a program that can be used to execute JavaScript on the computer (JS runtime)
2. In your own words, what is Chrome’s V8 JavaScript Engine?
    * The V8 JavaScript is the open source JavaScript engine that runs in the Chromium-based web browsers and is responsible for compiling JavaScript directly on the native machine code used for execution.
3. What does it mean that node is a JavaScript runtime?
    * It means that JavaScript can be executed on the local machine and not in the browser.
4. What is npm?
    * Node Package Manager
5. What version of node are you running on your machine?
    * Node.js v19.7.0
6. What version of npm are you running on your machine?
    * 9.5.0
7. What command would you type to install a library/package called ‘jshint’?
    * `npm install -g jshint`
8. What is node used for?
    * Node.js is used to build applications that require real-time interaction, building APIs, and data streaming sites.

## 6 Reasons for Pair Programming

Pair programming is the practice of two developers sharing a single workstation to interactively tackle a coding task together

Pair programming usually has a driver and a navigator. The driver types and is the only one who touches the keyboard, managing the code, text editor, switching files, and version control. The navigator uses words to guide the driver but does not touch anything on the computer outside of looking up solutions and documentation.

Listening, speaking, reading, and writing helps programmers learn the new language. Pair Programming helps with all four of these skills.

The reasons why pair programming works is because it helps with greater efficiency by producing higher quality code. There is more engaged collaboration because there is more focus than working alone. Learning from other students can expose coders to different techniques or ways to resolve a problem; also, the pair could teach the other another skill that they are weak in. Pair programming can enhance social skills, interpersonal skills, and ways to work with different personalities. It really develops the soft skills employers are looking for. This can also contribute to job interview readiness because pair programming can be involved in that and also the workforce environment readiness.

**Questions:**

1. What are the 6 reasons for pair programming?
    * The reasons for pair programming are greater efficiency, engaged collaboration, learning from fellow students, social skills, job interview readiness, and work environment readiness.
2. In your experience, which of these reasons have you found most beneficial?
    * I find the engaged collaboration to be the most beneficial. I tend to focus more when I am pair programming than when I am working alone. I am also inclined to make less typo errors as well as being able to bounce ideas off one another. A lot of times, I find myself needing that rubber duck to talk to in order to get the answer.
3. How does pair programming work?
    * Pair programming usually has a driver and a navigator. The driver types and is the only one who touches the keyboard, managing the code, text editor, switching files, and version control. The navigator uses words to guide the driver but does not touch anything on the computer outside of looking up solutions and documentation.

## Things I Want To Know More About
