# APIs

## RESTful Web API Design

A well designed API should be able to be called on by any client and be able to evolve and and functionality independently from client applications.

REST is an architectural approach to designing web services. REST is short for REpresentational State Transfer who is independent from underlying protocols and does not need HTTP

REST uses open standards and does not bind the API to the client. The API should be able to use any language. REST APIs are designed around resources. A resources any kind of object, data or service that can be accessed by the client. A resource has an identifier, which is an URI that uniquely identifies that resource.  The clients interact with a service by exchanging representation resources and most use JSON. REST APIs use a uniform interface which helps decouple the client and serve implementations. They also use a stateless request model because HTTP request should be independent and occur in any order. REST APIs are driven by hypermedia links that are contained in the representation.

Leonard Richardson has a web API [maturity model](https://martinfowler.com/articles/richardsonMaturityModel.html) where is summary:

> * Level 0: Define one URI, and all operations are POST requests to this URI.
> * Level 1: Create separate URIs for individual resources.
> * Level 2: Use HTTP methods to define operations on resources.
> * Level 3: Use hypermedia (HATEOAS, described below).
> Level 3 corresponds to a truly RESTful API according to Fielding's definition. In practice, many published web APIs fall somewhere around level 2.

Do not create APIs that mirror the internal structure of the database. The purpose of RESAT is to model entities and the operations that an application can perform on those entities.

Entities are grouped together into collections that are separate from the resource within the collection and have its own URI.

**Questions:**

1. What does REST stand for?
    * Representational State Transfer
2. REST APIs are designed around a ____.
    * Resource
3. What is an identifier of a resource? Give an example.
    * It is an URI that uniquely identifies a resource. An example would be: <https://github.com/dlewburg/portfolio/pr/#4>
4. What are the most common HTTP verbs?
    * GET, POST, PUT, PATCH, and DELETE
5. What should the URIs be based on?
    * URIs should be based on nouns (the resource) and not verbs (the operations on the resource).
6. Give an example of a good URI.
    * <https://adventure-works.com/orders>
7. What does it mean to have a ‘chatty’ web API? Is this a good or a bad thing?
    * A chatty API is basically a web server getting a lot of requests.
8. What status code does a successful GET request return?
    * Status code 200 (OK)
9. What status code does an unsuccessful GET request return?
    * Status code 204 (No Content)
10. What status code does a successful POST request return?
    * Status code 201 (Created)
11. What status code does a successful DELETE request return?
    * Status Code 204 (No Content)

## Resource

[Article from Reading](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/best-practices/api-design)

## Things I Want To Know More About
