# Design Web Pages with CSS Reading Notes

## What is CSS?

CSS stands for Cascading Style Sheet and allows the styling of HTML that was written for the webpage.  

The language is rule based and the rules are defined by the group of styles applied.  

* Anatomy of CSS

        selector {
            property: value;
        }

* Where the selector represents the element name, class name for and HTML box or id name for an HTML box.  
* Please note that class and id are attributes that are declared in HTML documents.  To use in CSS:
  * .class-name{
      property: value;
      property: value;
    }
  * #id-name{
      property: value;
    }
* Also know that you can have as many property: value pairs needed under each selector but put each one on a new line for cleaner code

CSS development can be browser specific but is only useful if two or more browser use the feature.

## Adding CSS

External CSS

* One file can change the entire website
* A reference to the external style sheet must be included in a \<link> within the head element of the HTML document
  * for example

        <!DOCTYPE html>
            <html>
                <head>
                     <link rel="stylesheet" href="mystyle.css">
                </head>
                <body>...</body>  
            </html>

* the style sheet will be a new file under the index.html file and can be written in any text editor and needs to be saved with .css extension

Internal CSS

* Can be used if one HTML item needs a special style.

* Defined by \<style> element within \<head>
* For example:

        <!DOCTYPE html>
        <html>
            <head>
                <style>
                    <body>...</body>
                </style>
            </head>
        </html>

Inline CSS

* Also used to style a special element and is used in the same line as the element, within the tag.

* uses style="" attribute

* For Example

        <h1 style="color:blue;text-align:center;">Heading</h1>

Multiple Style Sheets

* **If multiple ways to style have been used for the same selector, then the value from last read style sheet will be used.**

* Priority of Style Sheets
  1. Inline Style
  2. External and Internal Style Sheets
  3. Browser default

## Things I want to Know More About

CSS is a beast and I know I won't know everything about it, ever!

I do want to know if we can have background patterns but I will attempt this during the lab.