# Programming with Javascript Reading Notes

Javascript will execute the statements in order written. This is called flow control.

An error will cause the program to stop running on the line the error was found.

Conditional structure (if;else) can be used to determine if data is valid. This allows a certain script to run if certain conditions are met or run a different line if those conditions aren't met.

## Loops

Loops are also a Conditional Statement.

* sequence of instructions that repeats itself until a certain condition ois met.
* The process may start to see if the condition is checked and ran over and over again until the condition is no longer true.
* Essentially, loops execute a statement for variables repeatedly until the true condition becomes false.

***Recursion is the act of a function where is calls on itself*** Used to solve problems that have smaller sub problems.

## Functions

A piece of cod that can be called upon by other code or by itself tht refers to the data that was put into it.

* a function must be defined within the scope where it will be called

* when a function is called on, a value (argument) is placed into it (=) as input. This gives the function an option to return a value.  

* in JavaScript, a function is also a collection of properties (a object).

* to define a function:
        function nameOfFunction(parameters){
            return (value returned)
        }

* functions can be named within functions

* functions expression can be immediately invoked and can be identified by the extra parenthesis

## Expressions and Operators  

Valid code that resolves to a value.

* Arithmetic Operators perform math on numbers
  * Please note the + operator can also be used to concatenate strings

* Assignment Operators assign values to variables

* You can add a number and a string and it will output a string. If there is arithmetic to do, the order of operations applies before the number is converted into a string.  

* Logical Operators determine logic in True False

* Comparison Operators determine logical difference or equality of variables or values

* Type Version Operators convert variables to new variables and data types

* BitWise Operators convert the numbers in the operation to a 32 bit number.

## Things I want to Know More About

I would like to know more about the ?? operator and how that can be used in JS.