# Operators and Loops Reading Notes

## Assignment Operators

Expressions are vaild units of code that resolves to a value.  One type only evaluates and the other type have side effects.

Complex expressions can have operators

* Assign vales to left operand based on the value of the right operand

| Operator   | Description|
|:------:    | :------:
| x = f()    | Assignment
| x += f()   | Addition
| x -= f()   | Subtraction
| x *= f()   | Multiplication
| x /= f()   | Division
| x %= f()   | Remainder
| x **= f()  | Exponet
| x <<+= f() | Shift Left
| x >>= f()  | Shift Right
| x >>>= f() | Unsigned Right Shift
| x &= f()   | Bitwise AND
| x ^= f()   | Bitwise XOR
| x |= f()   | Bitwise OR
| x &&= f()  | Logic And
| x ||= f()  | Logic OR
| x ??= f()  | Nullish Coalescing

* Objects have different way of handing expressions.  The left had can make assignments of properties

* Note: *nesting and chaining assignments are not best practice because it may not work well together*

## Comparison Operators

* Compares operators and returns a logical value based on true

* If the operators being compared are not the same, JavaScript may try to convert it for comparison.

| Operator   | Description|
|:------:    | :------:
| ==         | Returns true if both are equal 
| !=         | Returns true if they are not equal
| ===        | true if they are equal and same type
| !==        | true if they are not equal, same type, of different type
| >          | true if left is larger than right (greater than)
| >=         | true if left is larger or equal to right
| <          | true if left is less than right
| <=         | true if left is less than or equal to right

* *Note => is for arrow function*

## Loops

Allows code to repeat steps for a certain number of times.

* ***Infinite Loops are BAD***

### For Statement

repeats until a specific condition is false

* Anatomy of for Statement

        for([initialExpression]; [conditionalExpression; incrementExpression]){
            statement
        }

* The initialExpression starts the loop and variables can also be declared here.

* conditionExpression is where the expression is evaluated and if true, the loop executes. If false, loop will terminate.  
  * If the there is no conditionExpression listed, the statement is automatically true
* The statement is the executed code. A block of code can be represented with {}
* The incrementExpression updated the code and checks the loop again

### While Statement

Executes the statements as long as the condition is true

* Anatomy of while statement:
        while (condition)
            statement

* when the condition becomes false, the statement stops executing

* the condition is looked at before the statement in the loop is executed while the value returns true and moves on once the condition is false.

## Things I want to Know More About

Can you nest while and for statements together? What use cases would require that?