# Class 201-02 Reading Notes

## HTML Text Fundamentals & Advance Text Fundamentals

Elements can be nested within each other

There are block and inline elements. Block elements for a block on the page and the contents appear on a new line and are structural. Block level elements can be nested in each other but not within inline elements. Inline elements are in block level elements and take up a small part of the page. Inline elements do not start on a new line.

There are also void elements which are self closing tags. The are usually used to insert or embed something in the document.

When an attribute is written without a value, it becomes a Boolean attribute.

HTML give structure to a document that makes the document easier to read.

`<p>` creates a paragraph

`<h1> <h2> <h3> <h4> <h5> <h6>` are all the heading elements and all represent a different heading level where `<h1>` is the top level heading and `<h6>` is the lowest level. The heading tags should be used in order. ***Please note that there should only be one `<h1>` per page.***

Description lists are used to mark up a set of items and their descriptions. Example:

        <dl>
          <dt>Description Term</dt>
            <dd>
            Description Definition goes here. Can be multi-lined.
            </dd>
          </dt>
        </dl>

`<blockquote>` is used when info from elsewhere needs to be quoted. `<cite>` with URL can be included within this element. Any code within `<blockquote>` will look like an indented paragraph.

Inline quotes use `<q>` with `<cite>` URL and are intended for short quotes.

`<abbr>` is used for abbreviations or acronyms and are wrapped around them. This is commonly used when the full explanation of the abbreviated term is used and then `<abbr>` is used throughout the rest of the markup.

`<address>` is used for providing contact info for the document. It is best used in te footer to provide the contact info for the site or in a article for the contact info of the author.

`<sup>` and `<sub>` are superscript and sub script respectively and are used for dates, chemical formulas, and math equations.

`<time>` is used for time and date formats for machines to read

`<code>` marks up generic pieces of computer code

`<pre>` retains white space, typically around code blocks. Any white spaced used within tag will show

`<var>` marks up variable names

`<kbd>` marks up keyboard input

`<samp>` marks up the computer programs output

Questions:

1. Why is it important to use semantic elements in our HTML?
    * Semantics are important because they make an HTML document accessible, easily readable, and the browser knows how to properly display the document. Semantics also play a role in how the search engines produce the website part of the search results.
2. How many levels of headings are there in HTML?
    * Six `<h1>` to `<h6>`
3. What are some uses for the `<sup>` and `<sub>` elements?
    *`<sup>` and `<sub>` are superscript and sub script respectively and are used for dates, chemical formulas, and math equations.
4. When using the `<abbr>` element, what attribute must be added to provide the full expansion of the term?
    * `<title>` attribute must be added to provide full expansion

## CSS Structure

External Style Sheet Code:

        <link rel="stylesheet" href="styleSheetFileName.css">

Internal Style Sheet Code:

        <head>
          <style>
            styling goes here
          </style>
        </head>

Inline Styling:

        <p style="color:red; background-color: yellow;">Content of tag with styling applied</p>

Selectors target HTML for styling and every CSS rule starts with this. Multiple selectors can be used for the same block of styling. Each selector should be separated with a comma.

If styles conflict, the last read line of code will apply.

Properties are identifiers and values are assigned to properties. Together this is a declaration. When within curly braces (selectors), it is called a rule set.

functions exist within CSS: `calc()` and `transform: rotate()`

\@rules give direction for what CSS should do; `@media` is most common

shorthand properties can contain several values in a single line of code

Comments can be made with \/* blah blah blah \*/

Questions:

1. What are ways we can apply CSS to our HTML?
    * CSS can be applied with an external style sheet with a `<link>` within the `<head>` of the HTML document. It can be added as an internal style sheet with the `<style>` element within the `<head>`. CSS can also be added as inline styling that affect the particular line of code.
2. Why should we avoid using inline styles?
    * Inline styling is essentially the worst practice due to it being inefficient for maintenance and it makes everything more difficult to read.
3. Review the block of code below and answer the following questions:
    1. What is representing the selector?
        * h2
    2. Which components are the CSS declarations?
        * color: black; & padding: 5px;
    3. Which components are considered properties?
        * color and padding

>         h2 {
 >           color: black;
 >           padding: 5px;
>         }

## JavaScript Basics

\/* Multi-line comments with line breaks\*/; \//Inline Comments

Operators are math symbols that have a result

Conditional if...else statements calculates a true/false result; if the result is true, the code runs; if not, the else runs; else if can also be added between the if and else statements.

Functions can contain code that can be used over and over again so the same code does not have to be written over and over again. They usually need arguments to work.

Event handlers listen for activity in the browser and run code to respond. Clicking on something with the mouse is an event.

Questions:

1. What data type is a sequence of text enclosed in single quote marks?
    * string; also can be put in double quotes
2. List 4 types of JavaScript operators.
    * addition (\+); multiplication (\*); assignment (=); not equal (!==)
3. Describe a real world Problem you could solve with a Function.
    * You can calculate pay from a job with a function with possible overtime if needed as well.

## JavaScript Conditionals

Conditional statements can be used to made decisions in the code; if...else statements are the most common and looks like:

        if (condition){
          run this code
        }else {
          run this instead
        }

else if gives the option of having more than two choices in the decision; this goes between the if and else statement and has it's own block of code

comparison operators check the condition inside conditional statements and run if evaluated to True

if...else statements can be nested; BUT logical operators can be used instead

`&&` (AND) allows two or more expressions to be chained together and all have to be true to be evaluated true

`||` (OR) allows two or more expressions to be chained together but one or more of them have to be true to be evaluated to true

switch statements take an expression and look through choices until something matches then executes

ternary operator tests a condition and return one value for true and the other for false. Example:

        condition ? run this code : run this code instead

Questions:

1. An if statement checks a __ and if it evaluates to ___, then the code block will execute.
    * condition; true
2. What is the use of an else if?
    * else if gives the option of having more than two choices in the decision; this goes between the if and else statement and has it's own block of code
3. List 3 different types of comparison operators.
    * Identical to or Not Identical to (=== and !===); less than or greater than (< and >); less than equal to or greater than equal to (<= and >=)
4. What is the difference between the logical operator && and ||?
    * In an `&&` all expressions have to be true to result in a true, where as in an `||` only one of the expressions have to evaluate to true to result in true

## Things I want to Know More About

In what way would we use ternary operators over if...else statements? Is is semantically correct for JS?
