# Class 201-10 Reading Notes

## JavaScript Troubleshooting

Syntax Errors happen when there are spelling errors in the code that causes the code to not run all the way through. Logic errors happen when the syntax is correct but the code does not give the expected result.

Syntax errors are characterized by a red x, and error message, an MDN link to learn more, the name of the JS file with the error that links to the Debugger, and the line number where the error is and the character number it is on that line.

Questions:

1. Name some key differences between a Syntax Error and a Logic Error.
    * Syntax are spelling errors that stop the code from running and are easier to fix because they give an error. With a logic error, code does run successfully but the output is not correct and is harder to fix because there are no error messages.
2. List a few types of errors that you have encountered in past lab assignments and explain how you were able to correct them.
    * I have encountered typos, not invoking a function, not declaring a variable, leaving out semi-colon or curly brace at the end of a line where it is needed, etc. So far,  most of my errors have been Syntax related.
3. How will this topic continue to influence your long term goals?
    * This topic is helpful in pointing out how the overall errors occur and how to correct them. Even though logic errors occur and are harder to fix because it technically isn't wrong, it is helpful to know that they can happen.

## JavaScript Debugger

Each modern browser had a set of devtools that are used to look at the webpage in depth. The tools are accessed from the inspect element option for the webpage and easily accessed through right clicking on the page.

The DOM Inspector looks at the page HTML and allows real time editing of the webpage to see what it will look like.

The CSS Editor shows the CSS rules applied to whichever HTML element is selected. This is a good place to look at how the box model is styled of any element.

The JavaScript Debugger allows the value of variables to be looked at as well as set breakpoints. There is the file list where the list of files associated with the page are, the source code where execution can be paused, and somewhere to watch expressions and breakpoints.

JavaScript Console allows lines of JS to run in the browser and reports any errors during execution.

Questions:

1. How would you describe the JavaScript Debugger tool and how it works to someone just starting out in software development?
    * The JavaScript Debugger can be accessed from the webpage and can help you identify in depth what is going on with the JavaScript on the page and gives the ability to pause the code from running. It also will show what code executed to get to current line.
2. Define what a breakpoint is.
    * A breakpoint is a pause in the execution of the code that can be set by the developer.
3. What is the call stack?
    * A call stack is part of the JavaScript debugger that only shows when the code is running; it shows what code was being executed to get to the current line.

## Things I want to Know More About
