# Class 201-09 Reading Notes

Web forms give interaction between the user and webpage. Data can be entered and is sent to the server for processing and storage.

Forms user from controls and can be multiple things and are created with `<input>` element. The controls can also have form validation and paired with text labels that describe their purpose for accessibility.

Best Practice is to design a form first.

`<form>` is defined with:

>        <form action="/my-handling-form-page" method="post>...</form>

where the `action` attribute defines the location of the where the form data is sent after collection. The `method` attribute defines the http method with `get` or `post`

The `<form>` usually exists within a `<section>` or `<footer>`.

`<input>` uses single line for input. it needs a `type` attribute to define how the element appears and behaves.
 `<textarea>` used for multi-lined input
 `<label>`

 [MDN Form Example](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Forms/Your_first_form):

>        <form action="/my-handling-form-page" method="post">
>          <ul>
>            <li>
>              <label for="name">Name:</label>
>              <input type="text" id="name" name="user_name" />
>            </li>
>            <li>
>              <label for="mail">Email:</label>
>              <input type="email" id="mail" name="user_email" />
>            </li>
>            <li>
>              <label for="msg">Message:</label>
>              <textarea id="msg" name="user_message"></textarea>
>            </li>
>          </ul>
>        </form>

in the above code, the explicit label is used for accessibility

`<button>` can be used as a `type` attribute where `submit`(sends data to webpage on the `action` attribute), `reset`(resets all form widgets to default value; NOT best practice), or `button`(does nothing but can be defined with JS) can be used.

## HTML Forms

Questions:

1. Why are forms so important in web development?
    * Forms are important to web development because they allow the user to input data that can be stored for later use. This input from the user is invaluable.
2. When designing a form, what are some key things to keep in mind when it comes to user experience?
    * Keep in mind accessibility and simplicity with the form. Always keep the end user in mind.
3. List 5 form elements and explain their importance
    * `<form>` declares the form; you cannot have a form without it; `action` attribute in the from tells the webpage where to send the data to; `<button>` creates interactive buttons for end-user and are used with `type="submit` to actually send the data to the specified location in `action` attribute. `<input>` is used for input from user on a single line and `<textarea>` is used for multi-lined input. `<label>` is for labeling the form fields and is best for accessibility.

## JavaScript Events

Events are occurrences that happen in the system which says how the code reacts

**Event Handler**  or **Event Listener** is a block of code that is run to respond to an event and are attached to an event in order to react.

`addEventListener()` can be attached to objects that fire events take in the name of the event and a function to handle event as arguments

`removeEventListener()` can be used to remove event handlers. `AbortSignal` can also be added to `addEventListener` to do the same thing

Event bubbling describes how the browser handles the events targeted at nested events and event capturing is the reverse order of event bubbling.

Questions:

1. How would you describe events to a non-technical friend?
    * Events are basically something looking at what the code does and writes down how the code is interacting with the system. Its almost like a scientist looking at how chemicals react to each other and making notes of that.
2. When using the `addEventListener()` method, what 2 arguments will you need to provide?
    * the name of the event to register handler for and a function (the code) to handle the event in response to the event happening
3. Describe the event object. Why is the target within the event object useful?
    * Event objects are used to event handlers to give extra features and information with `event`, `evt`, or `e` parameters.
4. What is the difference between event bubbling and event capturing?
    * In event bubbling, the event that fires first is on the innermost element targeted then out. In event capturing, the event fires first on the lest nested element then inward.

## Things I want to Know More About
