# Class 201-15 Reading Notes

## Psychological Safety

Research was done to see if groups had a collective IQ. Also, it ws concluded that if a team excels at a task, they probably will excel at other tasks, and if they failed at a task then the chances are they would fail the others as well.

A team's effectiveness can come from how well the members treat each other

Each team had norms that they followed and the norms differed between teams even though a person could end up on a totally different team.

Members speaking proportionately can make a team good.

A good team also can tell how someone feels based of tone and how they spoke.

Questions:

1. What are three key factors that contribute to psychologically safe teams?
    * "conversational turn-taking", "average social sensitivity", and group norms.

2. Evaluate, with details, a previous professional setting (or team) you were in with regards to psychological safety.
    * I used to be an aircraft maintainer so I was always with a group setting where we had to work together. There were also various leaders throughout the years each with their own leadership style. The style of the leader effected how effective the shop was at performing the goals even though the goals did not change. I saw that the higher the comradery within the shop, the more effective we worked together and accomplished the goals.

3. What impact do teams that operate with a high degree of psychological safety have on their company and the team members?
    * Teams with a high degree of psychological safety exhibit a high degree of effectiveness and optimization of production within the company.

## Things I want to Know More About
