# Class 201-08 Reading Notes

## CSS Learn Flexbox

A flexbox is a layout for one-dimensional content. It takes a bunch of items of different sizes and returns the best layout for those items.

Flexbox can provide flexible boundaries to hint how the could display.

Flexbox can display as row or column, are single lined by default with the capability to wrap to multiple lines, allows items to be reordered from DOM, spaces can be give to the items in relation to parent, box alignment properties can be used to give space and flex lines wrapped in layout, items can be aligned on the cross axis, and the writing mode of the document is acknowledged.

`flex-direction` property sets the main axis; items are either aligned on the `row` (horizontal) or `column` (vertical); all items move as a group;

cross axis runs the opposite of the `row` or `column`; on the cross axis, items can move individually or in a group so the alignment is against each other. wrapped flex lines can be treated as a group. ***NOTE: main acis follows `flex-direction`

To use flexblox used: `display: flex;` and this give a block-level box with the children being flex items. The flex children inherit their initial values of items displaying in a row, not wrapping nor fill the container, and they line up at the start of the container.

The direction of the items can be controlled with`flex-direction` property then choosing the value of: `row` (the default), `row-reverse`, `column`, or `column-reverse`. Keep in mind that reversing the order of the items may interfere with accessibility because it is not laid out in the HTML that way.

When flexing boxes, keep in mind the language used to know where to start on the page. Flexbox axis has a **main-start** (default alignment), **main-end**, **cross-start**, and **cross-end**

`flex-wrap` property controls wrapping items in the container. `nowrap`(shows content at `min-content` size) is the default value and `wrap` (shows content at `max-content` size) will wrap the contents in multiple lines.

`flex-flow` can set the `flex-direction` and `flex-wrap`. The space inside the container can be more than what the items max-content is able to fill. `flex` property can be used to adjust and is shorthand for `flex-grow`, `flex-shrink`, and `flex-basis`. Items can be declared with individual classes and the `flex` for each item can be altered.

`order` can reorder the items in a flexbox in **ordinal groups**. This does not play well with `row-reverse` or `column-reverse`

Questions:

1. Flexbox is designed for one-dimensional content. Explain what this means.
    * One-dimensional layout means all the content does not overlap and the best design for that content is chosen. This means that only one axis can be controlled at a time.
2. Explain the difference between the main axis and cross axis.
    * The main axis uses th3e `row` or `column` to align where the cross axis runs perpendicular meaning if the direction is row then the cross axis runs along the column.
3. How can using certain properties of flexbox negatively impact accessibility?
    * `row-reverse` and `column-reverse` both start from the end of the container and reversing the order of the items may interfere with accessibility because it is not laid out in the HTML that way.

## CSS Flexbox Layout

`display` determines if the box is inline or block where inline sits right next to the other things and it cannot be manipulated with width and height because the block level margin and padding is ignored by the nearby elements. The block level elements create a new line and expand to the size of the inline by default; this can be manipulated with the CSS. For block level elements the margin is respected on all sides

In a flexbox layout, all the children are converted to flex items where the alignment, order and justification can be changed as a unit or on each individual item. By default, all the items exist on the same line and will squish together instead of wrapping.

In a grid layout, it is designed to control the multi-axis layouts. it uses `display: grid`. `repeat()`, `minmax()` are functions and `fr` is used for fraction of remaining spaces. Example of single axis layout:

>                .my-element {
>                    display: grid;
>                    grid-template-columns: repeat(12, 1fr);
>                    gap: 1rem;
>                }

`grid-row` and `grid-column` properties can effect the items in the grid

`display: inline-block` makes a box that has come characteristics of a block-level element but still flows with the text

`float` has the element float to the direction specified and the sibling elements wrap around the item. Elements can float `left`, `right`, or `inherit`. To stop the sibling items from wrapping the float can be cleared by using `clear: both` on those elements or with `display: flow-root` on the parent of the floated elements

`column-count: *value*;` can set the number of columns for an `<ul>` or `<ol>`. `column-width` property can be used to increase/decrease the number of columns within the viewport.

`position` property changes how an element behaves in the normal flow of the documents and it's relation to other elements. Then default is `static` and other options are `relative`, `absolute`, `fixed`, and `sticky`

1. What are some advantages of using flexbox over float?
    * Some advantages of using flexbox over float is that flexbox makes a block level element and the items within line up for easier manipulation. In a float, the items automatically wrap around the floated items and that can change the layout of the entire page. There seems to be more steps associated with getting items lined up with float than it would with a flexbox.

2. How does this topic connect with your long term goals?
    * This topic is very helpful because it helps to know and understand the display properties and what the values do to the webpage. This can help me better style webpages in a logical and semantic way rather than trial and error.

## Things I want to Know More About

I would like to look further into setting different values for flex for clearer understanding.
