# Class 201-03 Reading Notes

## HTML Lists

Ordered list `<ol>` come out as numbered lists. Unordered list use `<ul>` and come out as a bulleted list

`<ol>` can use attributes to reverse the list order, choose when to start the list, and a type to choose the numbering type

`<ul>` can change the list-style-type within the CSS of the webpage

both list types use the `<li>` element for each list item.

`<ol>` and `<ul>` can be nested with each other as many times needed

Questions:

1. When should you use an unordered list in your HTML document?

    * an unordered list can be used to bullet the links list.

2. How do you change the bullet style of unordered list items?

    * It can be changed with the CSS with list-style-type

3. When should you use an ordered list vs an unordered list in your HTML document?

    * I would used an ordered list when I am listing steps or when the numeric value of the list is needed. I would use an unordered list for pretty much anything else.

4. Describe two ways you can change the numbers on list items provided by an ordered list?

    * Numbers on an ordered list can be changed using the start attribute and choosing the number you want to start with. Then numbers can also be changed with the reverse attribute.

## CSS Box Model

Everything is in a box. Boxes can be inline or block. The `display` property can be used to set values for the box.

An Outer display can be be block or inline. The block starts on a new line and width and height are respected. There is padding and margins that adjust the box. If there is no specified width, then the box becomes as wide as the container. With Inline, the same width and height do not apply and the box stays on the same line. The vertical padding, borders, and margins do not move the other box but can be adjusted vertically.

The Inner display box determines how element inside are laid out. `display: flex` is a way to change the inside of the box to flex items.

The box model defines how the margin, border, padding, and content within a box works together.

Parts of a Box:

* Content Box what shows on the webpage. Uses `inline-size`, `block-size`, `width`, and `height` properties

* Padding Box surrounds the content as white space. Uses `padding` property

* Border Box wraps around the padding and content box. Uses `border` property

* Margin Box wraps the border, padding, and content as whitespace between the box. Uses `margin` property

An alternative box model uses any width as the width of the visible box. It is activated with `box-sizing: border-box;` and it needs to be set within the `<html>` in the CSS file

DevTools can be used to view the box model.

Questions:

1. Describe the CSS properties of margin and padding as characters in a story. What is their role in a story titled: “The Box Model”?
    * Margin is like a guardian angel where it protects then entire element from the outside. It is white space to protect the block from other blocks. Whereas the padding is like a mother providing protection of the contact from other elements known in the block.

2. List and describe the four parts of an HTML elements box as referred to by the box model.
    * Parts of a Box:

        * Content Box what shows on the webpage. Uses `inline-size`, `block-size`, `width`, and `height` properties

        * Padding Box surrounds the content as white space. Uses `padding` property

        * Border Box wraps around the padding and content box. Uses `border` property

        * Margin Box wraps the border, padding, and content as whitespace between the box. Uses `margin` property

## JavaScript

Questions:

Arrays can store a list of data items under a single variable and are considered `objects`

Each item in an array is treated as an individual value.

Arrays are created with `[]` and each item within are separated by a comma. for example:

      const shopping = ['bread', 'milk', 'cheese', 'hummus', 'noodles'];
      console.log(shopping);

The length of an array can be found by using the `length` property: `variable.length`. Items start from index 0. Particular indexed items can be access with `variable[indexnumber];`

A multidimensional array is an array within another array. To access the items of the array within an another array, chain brackets together `variablename[indexnumber][indexnumber];`

To find the index of a particular item in the list use `variablename.indexOf(itemName);`

Items can be added to an array with `variableName.push(newItemName);`. The length of the array also updates as well. `unshift();` can be used to add item to the start of the array. The last item removed can be added back with `variableName.pop();`. It is also used to remove the last item on the list. `shift` is used to remove the first item of an array. If the item index is known, it can be removed with `splice()`

`for...of` can be used to access every item of an array.

`split()` can be used to separate the items in an array. `join()` can be used to join the items.

`toString()` can be used to convert array to string

1. What data types can you store inside of an Array?
    * Arrays can be stored in strings, numbers, objects, and other arrays.

2. Is the people array a valid JavaScript array? If so, how can I access the values stored? If not, why?
    * I people array is a list of objects that can be accessed with `for...of` when you do not need to know that index position.

3. List five shorthand operators for assignment in javascript and describe what they do.
    * these are shorthand operators
        1. x += y: this will take the value of x and add it to y
        2. x -= y: this will take the value of x and subtract it from y
        3. x &&= y: this only assigns value if the left side of the equation is truthy
        4. x ??= y: this only assigns a value if x is null or undefined
        5. x **= y: will raise the value to the power of the right hand

4. Read the code below and evaluate the last expression and explain what the result would be and why.
    * 10dog is the output because in JS the oder of operations apply when adding the string and the number together but cannot a true statement plus a false statement will render the true statement as the output
        >let a = 10;
        >let b = 'dog';
        >let c = false;
        >
        >// evaluate this
        >(a + c) + b;

5. Describe a real world example of when a conditional statement should be used in a JavaScript program.
    * A conditional statement can be used when you are doing daily chores at home. If a task is not complete then you can do it or move on to the next thing on the list.

6.Give an example of when a Loop is useful in JavaScript.
    * A loop would be useful when entering a password for something or any other instance where data accurately entered or done in a specific way
