# Class 201-07 Reading Notes

## Domain Modeling

Object-Oriented model creates a conceptual model in code for a specific problem where the data is stored in properties and puts behaviors in methods.

Constructor functions allow the same property to define many objects

Basic Object Oriented Programming in JS: `new` creates an object; the constructor function initializes properties using `this`; the object is now stored for later use

Questions:

1. Explain why we need domain modeling.
    * Domain modeling can define a problem that can be easily translated between businesses and technical teams.

## HTML Tables

A table is structured data made up of columns and rows that helps look up related values in the columns and rows

Tables need to be properly structured with HTML and styled with CSS

`tr` is used for table ro

Basic table structure in HTML:

        <table>
          <thead>
            <tr>
              </th>table Header</th>
            </tr>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <tr>
              <td>Table Data Column</td>
              <td>Another Column</td>
            </tr>
          </tbody>
        </table>

`<colgroup>` and `<col>` elements can be used to style columns by group if they are used instead of `<td>` and `<th>`

`<col>` can be used to specify info once within a `<colgroup>` element container right below an opening `<table>` tag.  ***`<col>` has to be blank between the opening and closing tag.

tables can use `caption` element right after the `table` element to give the table a caption for a description of the table contents. *This is good for accessibility*

Semantic elements for table structures are `thead` for the header that contains the column headings; `tfoot` for the footer that can contain the total, and `tbody` for the body that will contain the contents of the table and is included in every table.

Tables *can* be nested as long as the complete structure is there. This is does reduce the accessibility.

Questions:

1. Why should tables not be used for page layouts?
    * Tables are not accessible for end-users that use screen-readers nor have any visual enhancements. They also are not very responsive and can cause issues with styling.
2. List and describe 3 different semantic HTML elements used in an HTML `<table>`.
    * Semantic elements for table structures are `thead` for the header that contains the column headings; `tfoot` for the footer that can contain the total, and `tbody` for the body that will contain the contents of the table and is included in every table.Semantic elements for table structures are `thead` for the header that contains the column headings; `tfoot` for the footer that can contain the total, and `tbody` for the body that will contain the contents of the table and is included in every table.

## JS Constructors

An object is a collection of related data that contains properties (key/value pairs) or methods (functions within objects). Values within an object can be ANY JS data type.

Objects can be accessed with dot notation or with square brackets when dot notation cannot be used. If items are nested then you can chain the dot or bracket needed to access the info.

Data within the object can also be set or updated by declaring the member then using the dot or bracket notation.

`this` keyword references the current object and is best used when there are are more than one object literal

A constructor is a function with the `new` keyword. They create new object, bind `this` to new object, runs the code within, and returns the new object. They typically start with a capital letter for the TYPE of object created.

Example:
        const salva = new Person("Salva");
        salve.name;
        salva.introduceSelf();

Questions:

1. What is a constructor and what are some advantages to using it?
    * A constructor is a function with the `new` keyword. They create new object, bind `this` to new object, runs the code within, and returns the new object. They typically start with a capital letter for the TYPE of object created.
2. How does the term `this` differ when used in an object literal versus when used in a constructor?
    * In constructors `this` is bound to the construct property name and replaces it with what the input of the arguments are.

## JS Objects using Constructors

`object.create` allows the creation of an object

`prototype` is a property that allows methods be be shared across all instances of a function.

`inheritance` is a child class that can inherit all the methods and properties from another class

Questions:

1. Explain prototypes and inheritance via an analogy from your previous work experience. ***Common interview question***
    * `prototype` allows new properties to be added to object constructors. Prototypes inherit properties from a prototype.

## Things I want to Know More About
