# Class 201-13 Reading Notes

## Local Storage

HTTP protocol is stateless meaning the state will reset when the browser is closed and reopened. Usually, things are saved on a server but it may be inconvenient with making users get an account.  

Users can use local storage with a key.

Cookies are a text file hosted on the computer and the domain. Cookies can store, read, and delete info. The cannot add to the document load, only allows 4KB of storage, and can be used to track users. The use of cookies is a dated practice.

Local Storage can be used by modifying the `localStorage` object with JavaScript with `setItem()` and `getItem()` methods. Example:

>        localStorage.setItem('favoriteflavor', 'vanilla');
>        var taste = localStorage.getItem('favoriteflavor');

where the `setItem()` can set the item and can be read with `getItem()`
the item can also be removed with `localStorage.removeItem();

`sessionStorage` can be used in lieu of `localStorage` if the info can be reset when the window closes

Local storage can only store strings in the keys. A workaround is using `JSON.stringify()` and `JSON.parse()` methods.

Local storage can be accessed but varies depending on browser

Questions:

1. Why would a developer use local storage for a web application?
    * A developer needs to use local storage in order to store the state of the interface. The data can be stored on the webpage because it is easily accessible and can be retrieved faster. It can also help the developer maintain the quota set aside.
2. What information should not be stored in local storage?
    * Local storage should not contain any data needed to run the program.
3. Local storage can store what type of data? How would you convert it to that type before storing?
    * Strings are the only datatype that can be stored in local storage. A workaround is using `JSON.stringify()` and `JSON.parse()` methods.

## Things I want to Know More About
