# Class 201-06 Reading Notes

## Javascript Objects, DOM, & Problem Domain

An object is a collection of related data that is made up of several variables and functions. Variable and functions are known as properties and methods when they are inside objects.

Objects start with declaring a variable and is made up of multiple members where every key/value pair has to be separated with a comma and colons are usd to separate the cases of the pairs.

**object literals** are when the object contents are written out as they are created. They are best used when a bunch of info needs to be sent instead of sending all the info individually.

An objects properties can be accessed with dot notation. it goes:

        objectName.itemToAccess;

Keep in mind that objects can be an object property and can be accessed with another dot notation followed by the property.

If desired, bracket notation can be used in lieu of dot notation but are typically used for values.

Object members can also be set/added by dot notations (bracket notation can be used too).

Dot notations can only accept literal member names and not a variable value pointing to a name and this is where bracket notation can be used instead.

`this` is a keyword that references the object the code is being written in. The keyword is useful for multiple objects within a single object or constructs.

A construct is a function that is invoked with `new`. Calling a construct allows the creation of a new object, binds `this` to the new object, runs the code in the new construct, and returns the new object.

Construct variables start with a capital letter and are named after the type of object they create.

Questions (Objects):

1. How would you describe an object to a non-technical friend you grew up with?
    * An object is a container that contains related data. I would compare it to the box or container that has all the different decorations from Christmas.
2. What are some advantages to creating object literals?
    * Some advantages of creating object literals is that code can be better organized and it can be a good way to name global variables without having them everywhere.
3. How do objects differ from arrays?
    * Objects are different than arrays because they have key value pairs as well as using dot notation to call a property.
4. Give an example for when you would need to use bracket notation to access an object’s property instead of dot notation.
    * Bracket notation would be used instead of dot notation when a variable value needs to be added.
5. Evaluate the code below. What does the term `this` refer to and what is the advantage to using `this`?
    * In the code below, `this` refers to the constant "dog" and the advantage of using `this` is to prevent the repetition of code for every object when there are multiple objects.

   >      const dog = {
    >        name: 'Spot',
     >       age: 2,
      >      color: 'white with black spots',
       >     humanAge: function(){
      >      console.log(`${this.name} is ${this.age*7} in human years`);
      >      }
     >   }

The ***DOM*** (Document Object Model) represents the objects that make up the content and structure of a web document. The DOM represents the page so other programs can change the content, structure, and content. Programming languages can interact with the page because the DOM represents the page as nodes and objects.

The DOM is a Web API that is used to build websites. There are different types of data that can be manipulated like the HTML and SVG within the DOM.

The DOM is a structural representation available from a consistent API that can be used by any language.

The DOM can be accessed as soon as the `<script>` tag is in there; the `document` or `window` objects can be used to manipulated the document. `console.log()` is one that is commonly used.

DOM Data Types: Document, Node, Element, NodeList, Attr, & NameNodeMap.

Common APIs in web and XML page scripting using DOM:

* `document.querySelector(selector)`
* `document.querySelectorAll(name)`
* `document.createElement(name)`
* `parentNode.appendChild(node)`
* `element,innerHTML`
* `element.style.left`
* `element.setAttribute()`
* `element.getAttribute()`
* `element.addEventListener()`
* `window.content`
* `window.onload`
* `window.scrollTo()`

Questions (the DOM):

1. What is the DOM?
    * It is a representation of a webpage as a structure that can be manipulated by a programming language.
2. Briefly describe the relationship between the DOM and JavaScript
    * Javascript is one of the scripting languages (or APIs) that can be used to change elements in the DOM.

## Things I want to Know More About

I am interested in learning more about OOP with Javascript.
