# Class 201-01 Reading Notes

## Getting Started

Javascript is used to add interactivity to a webpage. The language can be combined with Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) to add dynamic functionality.

JavaScript can be written into the HTML document with the tag.

* JavaScript is put at the bottom of the HTML because code is read in order and in order to have an impact on the HTML, it will need to be read after.

After declaring the variable, you can rename the variable throughout the program. ***(This does not apply to the const variable)***

Variables can be different data types:

* String - any text; uses double or single quotes
* Number - any number; doesn't need quotes
* Boolean - True/False value
* Array - structure that allows multiple values to be stored at once
* Object - literally anything

Comments can also be used in JS and they are not read as code. They can be used to explain what the code is supposed to do:

* Multiline Comment: /\*Multiline text goes between symbols */
* In-Line Comment: \//in-line comment goes here

Questions:

1. Compose a short poem describing how HTTP sends data between computers.
    * User inputs a web address;   it is converted to an IP address and looked up on the DNS;  through HTTPS, the client makes a request and the server says yes; the server sends the files and the browsers complies; the clients gets what he needs and the user is pleased

2. Describe how HTML, CSS, and JS files are “parsed” in the browser.
    * The first file parsed the the HTML file. In this file, the link to the external CSS file exists as well as the file to the JavaScript file that are requested from the server by HTML. Now a Document Object Model is generated and then the CSS Object Model is made from the CSS and then JavaScript is executed. As these files are read and compiled, a webpage is displayed.

3. How can you find images to add to a Website?
    * Images needed can be found on a search engine. The copyright images can be filtered out. The desired imaged can either be saved or the web address can be copied and paste directly in the code.

4. How do you create a String vs a Number in JavaScript?
    * The main difference between a string and a number is the use of quotes(single or double). A number between a set of quotes is considered a string.

5. What is a Variable and why are they important in JavaScript?
    * Variables exist in the language and are basically containers that store whatever value is assigned to it. This is done by declaring variables:

      * let =
      * const =
      * var =

## Intro to HTML

HTML (HyperText Markup Language) tells the how to structure the webpage.

HTML uses elements that are wrap different parts of the content of the page.

Questions:

1. What is an HTML attribute?
    * Used to have info about the element that will not show as content. A link is contains an attribute where the url for the link is in an attribute (href) and the content see is what the link is named.

2. Describe the Anatomy of an HTMl element.
    * An element starts with an opening tag (\<p>). Then there is content followed next (content can be anything).  Then there is a closing tag (/</p>) which symbolizes the end of the element.

3. What is the Difference between \<article> and \<section> element tags?
    * An article is a block of related content on part of the page where a section is a grouping of related content on a single part of the page.

4. What Elements does a “typical” website include?
    * A typical website should have a \<header>, \<nav>, \<main>, \<aside>, and \<footer>

5. How does metadata influence Search Engine Optimization?
    * M Utilizing metadata proper can allow the webpage to be indexed higher on the results of the search engine.

6. How is the \<meta> HTML tag used when specifying metadata?
    * \<meta> is usually enclosed the in \<head> element of a document so it is not seen as content on the page. This is also where search engines look for what the page content could have.

## Miscellaneous

 Design Website Questions:

1. What is the first step to designing a Website?
    * The first step is to think about what you want to do.

2. What is the most important question to answer when designing a Website?
    * When designing a website, the most important thing to consider is what is to be accomplished.

Semantics Questions:

1. Why should you use an \<h1> element over a \<span> element to display a top level heading?
    * An \<h1> heading gives the meaning as a top level header whereas a \<span> has no meaning at all but can be designed to look like a top level heading.

2. What are the benefits of using semantic tags in our HTML?
    * Proper semantics in HTML will allow the content to be rendered more important by search engines and makes the code more accessible and readable.

## Things I want to Know More About

What semantically correct data can I put in \<meta> tags?
