# Class 201-14 Reading Notes

## CSS Transforms

`transform` property has 2D and 3D settings that each have their own respective individual property values. The property can alter the size, position, and change elements. Overall, there is not a lot of browser support for this property.
The property can be written out as `transform: value:`

The property has several vendor prefixes that go in front of the property; (i.e. `-webkit-; -moz-; -o-;) that are used to get the best support across the browsers.

The 2D works on the x and y-axis (horizontal and vertical planes). More in depth about 2D values:

* `rotate` value can be used here to rotate an element clockwise (with a positive value) or counter-clockwise (negative value). The point of rotation is the center of the element. This will also all the box to rotate 360 degrees horizontally.
* The `scale` value can change the size of an element; default value is 1 so 0.01 -0.99 makes it smaller and 1.01 and up makes the element larger; also the height and width can be scaled with `scaleX` and `scaleY` values. They can be done with the `transform: scale (x-axis value, y-axis value);`
* `translate` value pulls and pushes an element without interrupting normal flow of the document (like `position: relative;`). Just like `scale` the x and y positions can be changed separately. This value usually uses px or % for measurement. Positive values push the element down and to the right and negative values pull the element up and to the left.
* `skew` transforms the group and distorts the elements. It uses `skewX` and `skewY` for the respective axis. It is measured in degrees (deg). `skew` cannot br used for 3D.

Multiple transforms can be used at once and used within the same property without commas. ***NOTE: multiple transform properties will not work; it will overwrite the one above it***

`transform-origin` can be used to change the center of an element.

3D transforms need a perspective to transform from in order to work. It can work with `transform: perspective(value)` for one element. If the group needs to be 3D then this is applied to the parent element. It uses any length measurement for a value. The lower the number, the closer the perspective and the higher the number the perspective is not seen as much. `perspective-origin` can be used to maintain a relationship with the element.

The 3D works on the x, y, and z axis which helps give depth. `rotateX`, `rotateY`, and `rotateZ` allow an element to rotate on any axis. Using `scaleZ` allows elements to be scaled on the z-axis.

`translateZ` will push an element further away making the element with a negative value; a positive value will pull the element closer making it look larger

`rotate3d`, `scale3d`, `transition3d`, and `matrix3d` are all shorthand and can be used to transform an element

nested elements can be transformed on their own axis with `transform-style: preserve-3d;`

`backface-visibility: hidden` can hide an element when it is facing away from the screen. `visible` is the default value and best used wih animations.

Questions:

1. What does a CSS transform allow the developer to do to an element?
    * The property can alter the size, position, and change elements.
2. Provide an example of a transform and how you could see that being used on a website.
    * An example of a transform is `skew` and it can be used to distort a background image behind some text to make it look stretched out

## Transitions and Animations

Transitions allow the ability to alter the appearance and behavior of elements without HTML and JavaScript. Animations can set multiple point of transition in the keyframes.

Pseudo-classes allow transitions to occur with `:hover`, `:focus`, `:active`, and `:target`

Transition properties are `transition-property`, `transition-duration`, `transition-timing-function`, and `transition-delay` and can use the vector prefixes to be more compatible with the browser.

`transition-property` determines WHICH properties will be altered along with the other transitional properties. Multiple properties can be added with a comma. `all` may also be used as a value

All properties cannot be transitioned; only the properties with a half-way point. `display` is an example of something that cannot be transitioned because it does not have a halfway point.

`transition-duration` controls the timing before a transition takes effect. it uses seconds (`s`) and milliseconds (`ms`). Multiple durations can be set with comma separated values.

`transition-timing-function` sets the speed a transition will move. Values include `linear`, `ease-in`, `ease-out` and `ease-in-out`.

`transition-delay` determines how long a transition should be stalled before executing. Multiple transitions can be delayed with commas separating them

All transition properties can be set in order with using `transition` then the value not separated by commas

Animations set multiple points where an element should transition. `@keyframes` rule is used for an element that needs multiple transitions. The rule includes the animation name, breakpoint and the properties for animation. **This rule Muse be vendor prefixed** This rule set must be declared first

`@keyframes` must be assigned to an element after it has been declared and is used by `animation-name` property. `animation-duration` must also be used. `animation-timing-function` and `animation-delay` can be used for a timing function.

`animation-iteration-count` property determines the repetitiveness and uses an integer or `infinite` keyword for a value.

`animation-direction` holds `normal`, `reverse`, `alternate` and `alternate-reverse` fror values.

`animation-play-state` allows animation to be played or paused using `running` and `paused` keyword values.

`animation-fill-mode` identifies how an element should be styled either before, after, or before and after an animation runs. The keyword values used are `none`, `forwards`, `backwards`, and `both`.

`animation` can be used for shorthand

Questions:

1. What does a CSS transition allow the developer to do to an element?
    * The `transition` allows the developer to change the appearance of an element based off a style.
2. How does a CSS animation differ from a CSS transition?
    * Transition is a visual change from one state to another, whereas animations require multiple states of controlled transitions

## Simple Transitions to Wow Users

Fade in can be used with `:hover` and changing the opacity. Color can be changed with the same pseudo-class

`transform: scale` can be used to grow and shrink and element with pseudo-class `:hover`

`transform: rotate` with pseudo-class `:hover` can be used to rotate elements in on the parent element

transition from square to circle is done with `:hover` then changing the `border-radius: 50%`

A 3D shawdow can be obtained with adding a `box-shadow` property then `transform: translate` with the `:hover`

`@keyframes swing` can be used with `transform: translateX` in various percentages of the page to get an element to swing; it is applied with `:hover` on the class then `animation: swing` and `animation-iteration-count`

A ghost button can be created with `:hover` on the class, the setting the `box-shadow: inset 0 0 0 25ps color;`

Questions:

1. What are some benefits to using CSS transitions on websites?
    * CSS transitions on a website make it look cool, fun, and interactive. This can allow more traffic to the website and make it look more attractive to end-users
2. How this topic fit in with your long-term goals?
    * This can assist with my long-term goals because can aim to put transitions and animations into every site that I build. Boring websites without it are a thing of the past and majority of websites have some sort of transition or animation implemented.


## Things I want to Know More About
