# Class 201-12 Reading Notes

## HTML Canvas

The `<canvas>` element allows 2D graphics to be drawn with JS and must have `width` and `height`bat minimum.

If the browser does not support the `<canvas>` element, the everything between the opening and closing tag will display and in considered fallback content.

The `getContext()` method returns a render context object that allows something to be drawn. The only argument it takes is a type of context.

The drawing of the 2D context begins at the upper-left of the element, at point (0,0). Each coordinate value is calculated in relation to this point; x increases to the right and y increases down.

The basic drawing operation is fill snd draw and use the `fillStyle` and `strokeStyle` properties to determine what to do.

Questions:

1. What does the `<canvas>` allow a developer to achieve?
    * The element allows the developer to draw 2D images with JavaScript
2. What is the importance of the closing `</canvas>` tag?
    * The closing tag allows all the content in between the opening and closing tag to be displayed (fallback content) in case the browser does not support `<canvas>` element.
3. Explain what the `getContext()` method does.
    * The `getContext(2D)` method allows for the figure to be drawn on the screen

## Chart.js Documentation

Chart.js is a very popular charting library for JS and it provides a set of frequently used chart types, plugins, and custom options. It is compatible with JS frameworks.

By default, Chart.js has a sound configuration and animations turned on.

It can render chart elements which allows it to have high performance. ***Note: canvas rendering stops CSS styling***

Chart.js is good for large datasets and reduces what has to be put in the DOM tree.

Questions:

1. What is Chart.js and how it can be brought into your project?
    * Chart.js is a charting library that works well with a lot of JavaScript frameworks. I could use Chart.js to graph the input data from the cookie-stand project as well as the data from the odd-duck project.
2. List 3 different Chart types you can create using Chart.js.
    * Scatter Chart, a Line Chart, and a Pie Chart

## Create Animated Charts with Chart.js

Charts are much easier to look at than tables and easier to understand the data.

Questions:

1. What are some advantages to displaying data via a chart over a table?
    * Charts are much easier to look at than tables and easier to understand the data.
2. How could Chart.js aid your previously created applications visually?
    * I could use the Chart.js to convey the data for Lab 11 with a double bar chart or a pie chart and that would be much easier to see understand what data was used and what data was not used.

## Things I want to Know More About
