# Class401-14 Reading Notes

## Intro to Password Hashing

[Reference](https://auth0.com/blog/hashing-passwords-one-way-road-to-security/)

> Hashing is the foundation of secure password storage

a simple table can be created that will match a username with a password and the server can get a request for authentication and compare the input password to the one entered. How the password is stored gives the level of security.

*cleartext* is the least secure form of password storage (aka plaintext aka .txt)

*hashing* is a more secure form; it involves transforming the password into data that cannot be converted back to the original password

a hash function is an algorithm that maps data of any size to a bit string of a fixed size. the fixed size string function output is called the hash or message digest

it is hard to regenerate the original message if only the hash message is known; therefore, hashing is a one way mechanism

SHA-256 is the most widely used algorithm; it uses an avalanche effect which means if the input has a slight change, the hashed output will have a huge change; the output is non-sequential

hashed passwords are deterministic => meaning that same input will always produce the same output

basically for a log in, the password and username created is hashed and stored and when a user goes to log in again, the password is hashed and the hashed value is compared to the stored hash username and password for a hash match

because of the deterministic function, a hacker can just keep guessing the password until it matches the hash

**Questions:**

1. Define the term “hashing”.
    * Hashing is taking data and transforming it into another piece of data that cannot be transformed back
2. Explain to a non-technical friend what a hash function does to a password.
    * A hash function is like water in an ice tray. The water can come in any amount but it will always fit into the mold of the tray.

## Bcrypt Overview

[Reference](https://danboterhoven.medium.com/why-you-should-use-bcrypt-to-hash-passwords-af330100b861)

A password can be salted before it is hashed. To salt means to add a very long string of bytes to the password. If a hacker had access to the source code then they could have access to the salt string. OR each user could get a random salt string added when the account is created; this would take longer for the hacker to find the salt string to gain access

BCrypt hashing is a good way to encrypt passwords. It is based on the Blowfish cipher cryptomatic algorithms and looks like an adaptive hash function. It slows down hashing time and is resistant to hackers

**Questions:**

1. What does it mean to ‘salt’ a password?
    * To salt means to add a very long string of bytes to the password.
2. What piece of information would a hacker need to access in order to find the ‘salt’ string for your passwords?
    * A hacker would need access to the source code to find the salt string

## jBCrypt

[Reference](https://www.mindrot.org/projects/jBCrypt/)

**API:**

>        // Hash a password for the first time
>       String hashed = BCrypt.hashpw(password, BCrypt.gensalt());
>
>        // gensalt's log_rounds parameter determines the complexity
>        // the work factor is 2**log_rounds, and the default is 10
>        String hashed = BCrypt.hashpw(password, BCrypt.gensalt(12));
>
>        // Check that an unencrypted password matches one that has
>        // previously been hashed
>        if (BCrypt.checkpw(candidate, hashed))
>          System.out.println("It matches");
>        else
>          System.out.println("It does not match");

**Questions:**

1. How does the Blowfish block cipher handle the increased computation speed of new computers?
    * The computation cost of the algorithm is parametrized so ti can be increased as computers get faster
2. What are the issue with the two most common password hashes for Java (“Java password hash” and “Java password encryption”)?
    * Java password hash used unsalted hash that is susceptible to reverse dictionary lookup. Java password encryption uses reverse encryption which is a last resort use case.

## Things I Want to Know More About
