# Class401-12 Reading Notes

## Spring Guide: Accessing Data with JPA

[Reference](https://spring.io/guides/gs/accessing-data-jpa)

Spring Data JPA focuses on using JPA to store data in a relational database. It also can automatically create repo implementations, at runtime from a repo interface. The implementation is created when the application is run

Spring Data JPA also allows other query methods to be defined by declaring their method signature

> By default, Spring Boot enables JPs repository support and looks in the package where `@SpringBootApplication` is located. If the configuration has JPA repository interface definitions location in a package that is not visible, other alternate packages can be pointed out by using `@EnableJpaRepositories` and its type-safe `basePackageClasses=MyRepository.class` parameter

 `@Entity` is a JPA annotation

 The application can be run by building a single executable JAR that contains all necessary dependecies, classes, and resources. This makes it easy to ship, version, and deploy the service as an application throughout the development lifecycle, across different environments, etc.

 The application can be run from the command line using `./gradlew bootRun` 

 The file can also be built fromt the terminal by using `./gradlew build` then inputting `java -jar build/libs/gs-accessing-data-jpa-0.1.0.jar`
 
**Questions:**

1. How are query methods defined when using Spring Data JPA?
    * By declaring their method signature
2. Which dependencies will you need in order to complete the Spring guide?
    * Spring Data JPA and H2 Database
3. What annotations are used to specify an auto generated identification number for an Entity?
    * @Id and @GeneratedValue annotations

## Baeldund: Comparing Repos

[Reference](https://www.baeldung.com/spring-data-repositories)

**Questions:**

1. Which of the Spring Data Repositories covered in the readings has the most methods available to it?
    * JpaRepository
2. Name a downside of a Spring Data Repository.
    * The internal implementation details should not be exposed when coupling code
3. How would you define an operation to find a student based on their name in a repo named StudentRepository which extends JpaRepository?

## Things I Want to Know More About
