# Class401-04 Reading Notes

## [Java OO Tutorial](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/concepts/)

### Objects

An object is a software of related stated and behavior

Objects have *state* and *behavior*

The software object's state is stored in *fields* (aka variables in some languages) and the behavior is exposed thorough *methods* (aka functions in some languages)

Methods operate based off the state and is the primary way objects talk to each other.

*data encapsulation* is when the state is hidden and all interaction happens through the methods

The benefits of using objects include:

* Modularity
* Information-hiding
* Code re-use
* Plug-and-play and Easy Debugging

### Class

A class is a template of how objects are created.

They may have the same components that make up the class. Main is not required when declaring a class. It

**Questions:**

1. Explain the difference between an object and a class.
    * A class is a blueprint for objects that contain the data they will use for the methods. An object is created from the class and has state and methods.
2. Name two types of state that a Student object might have.
    * A student may be in grade 7 and take a math class
3. Name two types of behaviors that a student object might have.
    * A student object may play sports, or be on honor roll.

## [Java Classes](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/javaOO/classes.html)

**Declaring Classes:**

in a class declaration, the class body is the area between the braces and has the code for the objects to be created from. Modifiers (public/private) can be added at the beginning of the declaration. The modifiers determine if other classes can access the class.

Class Declarations need: Modifiers, Class name with first letter capital, name of class' parent (superclass) precceded by `extends` (if existent),a comma separated list of interfaces implemented by the class (`implements` keyword is used), and a class body surrounded by curly braces.

**Declaring Member Variables:**

*Fields* are member variables in a class

* composed of zero or more modifiers; the field's type and name

*Local Variables* are variables in a method or block of code
*Parameters* are variables in method declarations

Access Modifiers

* left-most modifier allows the control of what other classes have access to

* Private allows for local class access only whereas public allows the use of public allows all access

Types

* all variables MUST have a type. they can be primitive or reference

Variable Names

* there are naming rules but in a class the first letter should be capital and the first word in a method name should be a verb

**Defining Methods:**

Required Elements in Methods Declaration

* return type, name, parens (), and a body between braces {}

* Six Components of Method Declaration:
    1. Modifiers
    2. Return type
    3. Method Name
    4. Parameter list in parens
    5. Exception List
    6. Method body in braces

* a method signature is the method's name an parameter type

**Naming a Method:**

method names should be a VERB or a multi-word name that begins with a verb in

a method has unique names within a class

**Overloading Methods:**

Methods in a class can have the same names if desired but only if they have different parameters

A method with the same name and the same number and type of arguments cannot be declared because the complier will not be able to differentiate between the two; this creates a compile-time error

The complier does not consider return type when differentiating between methods

**Providing Constructors for Classes:**

A class has constructors that are invoked to create objects from the class blueprint.

Constructor declarations look similar to method declarations with the exception of using the class name and have no return type

**Passing Information to a Methods or a Constructor:**

The declaration for a method or constructor determines the number and type of arguments for themselves.

**Questions:**

1. Explain the significance of a constructor for a class.
    * It is used to create an object and gives the object the values it needs for the keys with the parameters
2. Write the declaration statement for a class named “Student” (do not fill it with fields and methods).

        public static Student{
          // class body
        }

## [Binary, Decimal, & Hexadecimal](https://www.mathsisfun.com/binary-decimal-hexadecimal.html)

Decimal - every number has a place and the decimal point helps us know which is which. To the left starts at ones and anything after that is 10x; left is 10x bigger, right is 10x smaller. This is a base 10 system with only ten digits ranging from 0-9.

Binary is a base 2 system. It only has 0&1.It starts with 2^0 and goes to 2^7

Hexadecimal is a base 16 system. It goes from 0-9 then A-F. It also goes 16^0 to 16^7 *0-F hexadecimal = 0-15 binary*

**Questions:**

1. What is the value of the binary number 1101?
    * 13
2. Write the number 52 in binary. Write it in hexadecimal.
    * Hexadecimal: 34 ; Binary: 110100

## Things I Want to Know More About
