# Implementation: Trees

[Reference](https://codefellows.github.io/common_curriculum/data_structures_and_algorithms/Code_401/class-15/resources/Trees.html)

> **Common Terminology:**
>
> * Node - A Tree node is a component which may contain its own values, and references to other nodes
> * Root - The root is the node at the beginning of the tree
> * K - A number that specifies the maximum number of children any node may have in a k-ary tree. In a binary tree, k = 2.
> * Left - A reference to one child node, in a binary tree
> * Right - A reference to the other child node, in a binary tree
> * Edge - The edge in a tree is the link between a parent and child node
> * Leaf - A leaf is a node that does not have any children
> * Height - The height of a tree is the number of edges from the root to the furthest leaf

In order to search a tree, you have to traverse through the tree with. The catagories of traversal are Depth First and Bredth First.

Depth First is going through the height of the tree. It can have a pre order (root -> left -> right), in order (left -> right -> root) or post order (left -> right -> root)

Recursion is the most common way to traverse through a tree because the call stack is relied upon to navigate back up the tree at the end of the sub-path. When a function call is completed it is popped off the stack and the previous node is the root where the execution can continue. It will now look in the opposite direction. When it reaches the end of the opposite side then it goes back to the root and pop it off because both sides have been looked at. It goes back to the root before that and looks at the other side until the end, pops it off, goes back and looks at the other side until the end, etc.

A tree leaf is the end of the side of the tree

In Breadth First, the first traversal is an iteration through the tree at each level node by node. it uses a Queue

In a queue traversal





## Things I Want to Know More About
