# Class401-03 Reading Notes

## [Primitives vs Objects](https://www.baeldung.com/java-primitives-vs-objects)

Every primitive type has a corresponding reference type (i.e. primitive: int -> reference: Integer)

The reference types are immutable, meaning the state cannot check once the object is constructed and they cannot pass anything down (inheritance)

When a primitive type is converted to a reference type, it is called autoboxing, and unboxing for the opposite. For example:

        Integer j = 1;          //autoboxing
        int i = new Integer(1); //unboxing

Deciding which to use depends on the application performance and memory available. NOTE: check the memory space on primitives

Reference type on JVM typically uses 128 bit except Long and Double whereas they use 192 bits.

The single-element arrays that consist of primitive are almost always more expensive (except long and double) that the reference type.

Primitive types in the stack

Reference types live in the heap

Primitive types operations are faster than operations for wrapper classes

Default values for primitive types are *0* for numeric types, *false* for boolean types, and *\u0000* for the char type. Primitive types acquire values from their domain. Variables should be checked for initialization if they are assigned the default value for the type.

Default values for wrapper classes is *null*. Reference types acquire value that does not quite belong to their domains



**Questions:**

1. Explain the difference between an “int” and an “Integer” in Java.
    * "int" is a primitive type and "Integer" is a reference type. Primitive types are mutable and can be changed whereas reference types are immutable and state cannot be changed once the object is constructed.
2. What is the default value for ints? Integers?
    * ints default is 0; Integers default is null
3. What is autoboxing? Unboxing?
    * Autoboxing is automatic conversion between the primitive type and the corresponding reference type. Unboxing is converting a reference type to a primitive type.

## [Exceptions in Java](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/essential/exceptions/index.html)

### Exception

An exception is Java's version of an error. It happens during program execution.

An object is created when an error occurs within a method and is called an exception object. The created object is handed to the runtime system where all info about the error lies. This entire process is called throwing an exception.

When a method throws an exception, runtime attempts to find something to handle it and they are an ordered list of methods. The list of methods is known as the call stack.

The part of the runtime system that searches the call stack for an method that contains a block of code to handle the exception is called an exception handler. The call stack is searched through in reverse order. When the proper handler if found, the runtime system system passes the exception to the handler. The handler can catch the exception. If there is no appropriate exception handler, the runtime system and program will terminate.

### Catch or Specify Requirement

Valid Java code has to have these things:

* A `try` statement that `catch` the exception. The `try ` must provide a handler for the exception.

* A method that specifies that an exception can be thrown. The method must contain a `throws` clause that lists the exception

NOTE: ANY code that fails to honor the Catch or Specify Requirements will not compile.

Types of Exceptions:

* Checked Exception
  * exceptional conditions a well-written app should anticipate and recover from. (i.e. user inputting an invalid file name when prompted -> re-prompt for valid file name)
  * all exceptions are checked exceptions except those indicated by Error, Runtime Exception, and their subclasses

* Error
  * exceptional conditions that are external to the application whereas the application cannot anticipate or recover from
  * not subject to the Catch or Specify Requirement

* Runtime Exception
  * exceptional conditions that are internal to the application whereas the application cannot anticipate or recover from.
  * usually indicate programming bugs (i.e. logic errors, or improper use of API)
  * not subject to Catch or Specify Requirements

NOTE: errors and runtime are known together as unchecked exceptions

Catch or Specify Requirements can be bypassed by using unchecked exceptions in place of checked exceptions even though this is not best practice.

### Catching and Handling Exceptions

There are three exception handler components: `try`, `catch`, & `finally` blocks. Example:

        try {
          // code goes here
        } catch (ExceptionType name){
          //
        } finally {
          //
        }

try block contains code that might throw an exception; this constructs an exception handler;

each try block created, provides separate exception handlers

catch blocks associate the exception handler with try block. they are right after the try block and no code can exist between the try block and the catch block.

there can be more than one catch block even though there is one try block.

each catch block is an exception handler that handles the type of exception indicated by its argument.

`ExceptionType` declares the type of exception the handler can handle and must be the name of a class that is inherited. the handler can refer to the exception with *name*

the code in the catch block is executed when the exception handler is invoked by the runtime system when it is thr first one in the call stack that `ExceptionType` matches the type of exception thrown.

Java SE 7 and later gives the catch block the ability to handle more than one type of exception.

NOTE: if a catch block handles more than one exception type then the catch parameter is implicitly `final`

`finally` block always executes when the try block exits. ensures the block is executed even if an unexpected exception occurs. cleanup code can go in this block and is good practice

NOTE: `finally` block may not execute if the JVM exits while the try or catch block is being executes

runtime always executes the statements within the `finally` block no matter what happens in the other blocks so it is perfect for cleanup

***IMPORTANT NOTE:***

Use a `try-with-resources` statement instead of a `finally` block when closing a file or otherwise recovering resources. this releases system resources when no longer needed.

`try-with-resources` is a try statement that declares one or more resources (an object that must be closed when a program is finished with it). this ensures that each resource is closed at the end of the statement

**Questions:**

1. List the three basic categories of exceptions.
    * Checked Exception, Error, & Runtime Exception
2. What type of statement can you use to handle an exception?
    * `try-with-resources`

## [Using Scanner to Read a Java File](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/essential/io/scanning.html)

`Scanner` objects of this type are useful for breaking down formatted input into tokens and translating individual tokens according to their data type

scanner uses white space to separate tokens by default (blanks, tabs, and line terminators)

scanner needs to close the method to indicate it is done with underlying stream

`useDelimiter()` can be invoked to use a different separator

tokens of all Java's primitive types are supported except char

**Questions:**

1. Describe a situation where you think it would be useful to have a program that scans text.
    * In a situation where someone is visually restricted can be useful to have a program that scans text
2. What is input from a Scanner broken down into?
    * Tokens

## Things I Want to Know More About
