# Class401-29 Reading Notes

[Saving Data with Room](https://developer.android.com/training/data-storage/room)

Room persistance library gives the ability to cache relevant pieces of data for offline access

The three major components of Room are: the database class that holds the database and serves as the main AP for the underlying connection to the persisted data, the data entities the represent the tables in the app's database, and the data access objects that provide methods that the app can use for the DB

[Defining Entities in Room](https://developer.android.com/training/data-storage/room/defining-data)

In room, entities are defined to represent objects that will be stored; each entity corresponds to a table in the Room DB, and each instance of an entity represents a row of data in the corresponding table --> Room entities can defined the DB schema without SQL code

`@Entity`is used to define each entity in a Room. It includes fields for each column in the corresponding table in the database including the primary key; by default the class name is the table name in the DB as well as the field names as the column names `@ColumnInfo1 can be used to change that.

`@PrimaryKey` is used to define the primary key

`@Ignore` can be used for fields that you do not want to persist

There are options for full text search, and to index specific columns, as well as AutoValue-based objects; use in immutable table classes are desired

[Related Entities in Room](https://developer.android.com/training/data-storage/room/relationships)

relationships between entities can be defied using an intermediate data class with embedded object or a relational query method with a multimap return

with the intermediate data class a data class that models the relationship between entities is defined --> as embedded objects

with the multi-map return type, no additional data classes need to be defined; rather a multi=map return type for the method based on the map structure is defined and used for the relationship between entities

either approach will work --> decide what works best

[Accessing Data with Room](https://developer.android.com/training/data-storage/room/accessing-data#java)

Using Room to persist data, interaction with the data defined the DOA. They include methods that offer abstract access to the app's database

because DOA allows direct access to the DB, separation of concerns is preserved as well as allow access to the DB when testing

DOA can be an interface or  abstraction of a class which 

**Questions:**

1. What database engine is Room wrapped around? Do you think this is a good choice? Why or why not?
    * SQLite(relational) databases is what room is wrapped around and I do think it is a good idea because the data is organized in tables related to the fields created in the entity, the compile times are faster and it is more convenient.
2. Do Rooms have any similarities to JPA?
    * They use @Entity to determine which fields will go on the table in the DB. The DAO seems to be similar to the User Repository in the example code provided.
3. Describe a DAO in your own words
    * Data Access Objects (DAOs) provide methods that talk to the database for the code

## Things I Want to Know More About
