# Class401-06 Reading Notes

## Java OO Tutorial

[Reference](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/concepts/)

### Inheritance, Interface, and Package

***Inheritance:*** is allowed by OOP. It is used in state and behavior from other classes. It is important to properly document the stated and behavior that each superclass defines because the code will not appear in the source file for each subclass

NOTE: Each class is allowed one direct superclass and Each superclass (PARENT CLASS) has the potential for an unlimited number of subclasses.

***Interface:*** is formed by the object's interface. An interface is the group of of related method with empty bodies. Starting an interface allows the class to become more formal about the behavior it promises to provide. Interfaces form a contact between the class and the outside world; the contract is enforced at build time by the compiler.

If the class claims to implement an interface, all methods defined by that interface must appear tin its source code before the class will successfully compile.

NOTE: the `public` keyword is needed at the beginning of the implemented interface methods to compile class

***Packages:*** are namespaces that organizes a set of related classes and interfaces. (Similar to different folders on computer). API (Application Programming Interfaces) is an enormous class library (set of packages). The API packages represent the tasks most commonly associated with general programming. There are thousands of packages to choose from which allows the programmer to focus more so on the design of the application over the infrastructure.

**Questions:**

1. What is the difference between an Object and a Class in Java?
    * A class is a blueprint from which an object is created and an Object is an instance of the class and consists of related stated and behavior.
2. Explain to a non-technical friend the concept of inheritance in Java.
    * Inheritance is what it sounds like, a Parent (superclass) gives characteristics to it's children (subclasses). The class (grandparent) can have one class (superclass) and the superclass can have unlimited amount of children (superclasses)

## Java Static Keyword

[Reference](https://www.programiz.com/java-programming/static-keyword)

The `static` keyword can be used to access class members without creating an instance of the class by declaring the class members static.

Static methods are also called class methods because static methods belongs to the class and not the object of that class.

When objects of a class are created, every object will have it's own copy of all the variables of the class.

Static methods are also called class methods because it belongs to the class rather than the object of a class. In every Java program the main is static because in order to run the program, the JVM should be able to invoke the main method during the initial phase where no object exist in the memory.

Static Variables share the same static variables with all objects of the class. Static variables are rarely used in Java. Static constants are used instead and are defined by `static final` keyword and represented in uppercase.

In order to access static variables and methods from inside the class, they can be access directly without the use of the class name

Static blocks are used to initialize the static variables. They are only executed once the class is loaded in memory. The class is loaded if either the object of the class is requested in code of the static members are requested in code. A class can have multiple static blocks and each static block is executed in the order it is written in the program. Static blocks are code in curly braces and do not have a name other than static.

Nested Static Class is declaring a class withing another class. There are Static Nested Classes and Non-Static Classes.

**Questions:**

1. Static methods are also called what? Why?
    * Static methods are also called class methods because it belongs to the class rather than the object of a class.
2. How can you access a variable of a class without instantiating an object from that class?
    * By using static blocks

## Java Singleton Class

[Reference](https://www.programiz.com/java-programming/singleton)

Singleton is a design pattern that ensure that a class can only have one object.

Creating a singleton class requires:

1. Create a private constructor of the class to restrict the object creation outside the class
2. Create a private attribute of the class type that refers to the single object
3. Create a public static method that allows the creation and access tot he object that was made. Inside the method, create a condition that restricts the creation of more than one object

Example:

        class Singleton Example {
          // private field that refer tot he object
          private static SingletonExample singleObject;

          private SingletonExample(){
            // constructor of the SingletonExample class
          }

          public static Singleton Example getInstance() {
            // write code that allows the creation of one object
            // access the object as needed
          }
        }

Singletons cas use be used with databases by crating a connection poll to access the database while reusing the same connection for all the clients.

**Questions:**

1. What is a Design Pattern? Describe one or two with analogies from your previous work experience.
    * Design Patterns are reusable solutions to common problems with design in software. At my current job, I use a "design pattern" when a user calls in and states that they are not getting their authentication code to their phone. It is either it was never set up correctly, they got a new phone, or deleted the app and tried to reinstall the authentication app. My design pattern would determine that the need their authentication method reset.

2. What is a Singleton?
    * A Singleton is a type of Design Pattern that is used for logging, drivers objects, caching, thread pool, or managing access to a shared resource.

## Things I Want to Know More About
