# Class401-11 Reading Notes

## Spring App Basics

[Reference](https://spring.io/guides/gs/serving-web-content/)

Static home page and accepts HTTP GET requests: `http://localhost:8080/greeting

Building websites with Spring allows HTTP requests to be handled by a controller. `@Controller` is the annotation used to find it.

@GetMapping ensures the HTTP GET request to the endpoint are mapped there

`@RequestParam` binds the value of the parameters to whatever data type and it is NOT required.

Thymeleaf is server-side rendering of HTML

class path for Thymeleaf: org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-starter-thymeleaf

Spring Boot Devtools allows hot swapping, switches template engines to disable caching, enables LiveReload to auto refresh browser, and had other reasonable defaults based on development instead of production

`@SpringBootApplication` annotation adds `@Configuration`, `@EnableAutoConfiguration`, `@ComponentScan`

`main()` method uses `SpringApplication.run()` method ot launch an application that is pure Java

An executable JAR can be built that will have all the necessary dependencies and make it easy to ship, version, and deploy the service as an app throughout the dev lifecycle across diff environments. Gradle uses `./gradlew bootRun` to run the app or the JAR file can be built with `./gradlew build` then `java -jar build/libs/gs-serving-web-content-0.1.0.jar`

**Questions:**

1. What role do the @Controller classes play in a Spring MVC application?
    * The @Controller is what handles the RESTful HTTP requests
2. Explain to a non-technical friend what a GET request is.
    * A GET request is when data is read from a database.
3. What annotation should be placed on your Spring Boot application class?
    * @SpringBootApplication

## Spring MVC and Thymeleaf

[Reference](https://www.thymeleaf.org/doc/articles/springmvcaccessdata.html)

> In a Spring MVC application, @Controller classes are responsible for preparing a model map with data and selecting a view to be rendered. The model map allows for the complete abstraction of the view tech and with Thymeleaf, it is transformed into a Thymeleaf context object that makes all the defined variable available to expressions executed in templates

Spring MVC calls the 


**Questions:**

1. What method allows for a variable defined in Java (in your Spring Controller) to be displayed in HTML with the help of Thymeleaf?
    * `SpringApplication.run()`
2. Explain the role of a @Controller class in a Spring MVC application.
    * A @Controller class in a Spring MVC application is responsible for preparing a model map with data and selecting a view to be rendered
3. What is a model attribute referred to in Thymeleaf?
    * Context Variables

## Things I Want to Know More About
