# Class401-09 Reading Notes

## Review High-level HTTP

[Reference](https://dev.to/dangolant/things-i-brushed-up-on-this-week-the-http-request-lifecycle-)

Steps of simple HTTP1.1 request (not persistent connection)

1. Local Processing
    * Request is made by a browser; it extracts the 'scheme'/protocol, an optional port, resource path, and query. For example

             <protocol>://<host><:optional port>/<path/to/resource><?query>
    * Now, an IP address is needed and searches own cache of recently requested URLs, queries, router cache, and DNS cache

2. Resolve an IP
    * If cache look up fails, browsers does DNS request with UDP that contains the pre-configured IP for serve and the client IP in the header.
    * DNS request travels through many networks devices to reach DNS server. When it touches a network device (router), the device uses a routing table to figure out which other device is connected to get the request to the destination via the shortest path.
    * Request could be successful and the response makes it back to the requesting client with the target IP address. This info is cached for a certain amount of time outlined in the response

3. Establish a TCP Connection (transport layer protocol)
    * TCP ensures delivery and ordered data transmission mostly with a sequence number for every byte sent which allows the receiving client to reorder the sent packets. This also allows the sender to resend any packet that got lost
    * TCP connections use three-way handshake but the server must already be listening on a port, then the client can start an active open. First the client starts the active open by sending a sync control packet to the server; here the sequence number is set to a random value. Then the server responds with a sync-acknowledge message to acknowledge it received the packet. Finally, the client sends an acknowledgement message  back to the server to with the same sequence number that matches the number the server sent back in the second part of the handshake. All of this ensures ALL the data is being delivered reliably.
    * After the three-way handshake is done, an connection is established where client and server have both acknowledged each other's connection.

4. Send and HTTP Request
    * Now an HTTP can now be sent. It contains a request line (http method, resources being requested, protocol version), request header (name:value pairs; to consecutive \<CR>\<LF> represent the end of the header), and body (content of the HTTP request and is optional). The only required field in HTTP request is the \<host> in which contains the domain and port request is being sent to.
    * The HTTP request is sent and the server processes it and creates an HTTP response. This contains a status line that has the status code, response header, optional body.
    * Once the response is created, the server responds to the request (first response packet) and sends and acknowledgement for every two packets received until the response is fully loaded.

5. Tearing Down and Cleaning Up
    * The four-way handshake is after the response has been delivered, the client sends finished packed back to the server in which the server sends acknowledgement and then finish of its own. Then the client responses with acknowledgement. Then the client has a timeout period where no new connections can be made.
    * Now the browser processes what it has received.

**Questions:**

1. What are the five steps in the HTTP Request Lifecycle?
    * Make a request, Get the IP address, establish a connection with the server, send the request, process what is sent back.
2. What are the two things the client needs before it can make an HTTP Request?
    * Port, domain
3. Explain the four way handshake and what it does.
    * he four-way handshake is after the response has been delivered, the client sends finished packed back to the server in which the server sends acknowledgement and then finish of its own. Then the client responses with acknowledgement.

## Java HTTP Request Example

[Reference](https://www.baeldung.com/java-http-request)

Java has a built in URL class to perform HTTP requests: `HttpUrlConnection` (set to be replaced by `HttpClient` API)

The `HttpUrlConnection` allows basic HTTP requests without the use of additional libraries to be done and any classes needed are in then *java.net* package. This is not an advanced method

An `HttpUrlConnection` instance can be created using the `openConnection()` method. This method only creates a connection object and does NOT establish a connection.

The `HttpUrlConnection` can be used for all types of requests by setting `requestMethod` to either GET, POST, HEAD, OPTIONS, PUT, DELETE, TRACE. For example:

>        URL url = new URL("http://example.com");
>        HttpUrlConnection con = (HttpUrlConnection) url.openConnection();
>         con.setRequestMethod("GET");

Adding Parameters to a request needs the `doOutput` property set to `true` and then write the `String` of the form ***param1=value¶m2=value*** to the `OutputStream`

Adding headers to a request can be done with using `setRequestProperty()` method

To read the value of a header from a connection use `getHeaderField()` method

`HttpUrlConnection` class allows the setting of connections and reads timeouts. These values define the interval of time to wait for the connection to server to be established or data to be available for reading. Set the values with `setConnectTimeout()` and `setReadTimeout()`

The *java.net* package contains classes that help with working with cookies such as *CookieManager* and *HttpCookie*. The cookies need to be first read from a response then added to the cookie store. From there you can check of a username is preset and if it is not, it can be added. Now the cookies can be added to the request by setting the *Cookie* header after closing and reopening the connection.

Redirects can be automatically enabled or disabled for specific connections using `setInstanceFollowRedirects()` method with a boolean parameter (`true` or `false`). The behavior is enabled by default. When the return status is 301 or 302, the *Location* header can be retrieved and a new request to the new URL can be created

Reading the response of a the request can be done by parsing the `InputStream` on the `HttpUrlConnection` instance. To execute, use `getResponseCode()`, `connect()`, `getInputStream()` or `getOutputStream()` methods. the response can be put in a *content* string and the connection can be closed with `disconnect()`

If a request fails, consume the stream provided by `HttpUrlConnection.getErrorStream()` where the *InputStream* can be used by comparing the HTTP Status codes

You cannot get the full response representation using `HttpUrlConnection` but they can be built using some of the methods. the `getFullResponse` method validates whether the request was successful or not in order to decide if it need to use `con.getInputStream()` or `con.getErrorStream` to retrieve the request's content

**Questions:**

1. True or False: When making an HTTP request, you MUST follow any redirect returned by the request. Back up your answer.
    * True if you want to access the site
2. Which built-in Java class can be used to perform an HTTP request?
    * `HttpUrlConnection`
3. What HTTP status codes represent a successful response? A redirect? A client error?
    * 200-299-> successful ; 300-299 -> redirect ; 400-499 -> client error

## Things I Want to Know More About
