# Class401-01 Reading Notes

## Java Basics

[Java Basics Reference](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/nutsandbolts/index.html)

### Variables

* instance variable (non-static fields) - used by objects and values are unique to each instance of a class;

* class variable (static fields) - used by classes; and informs the complier that there is one copy of the variable no matter how many times the class shows

* local variable - used by methods to store temporary state and are only visible to the methods where declared

* parameter - always classified as variables

Naming conventions are the same with camel casing, compound naming

Primitive Data Types

* byte (number) - min value of -127 and max of 127

* short (number) - min value of -32,768 and max 32,767

* int (number - 32bit) - min value -2^31 and max value of 2^31

* long (number - 64 bit) - min value of -2^63 and max value of 2^63

* float (floating point) - used for decimal values (do not use for precise values like currency)

* double (number) - default use for decimals but not precise values like currency

* boolean (T/F) - it is either true or false

* char (character) - uses single quotes

Arrays are a container of objects that hold a fixed number of a single type of value. length is determined when the array is established, after creation the length is fixed

                int[] myArr; //this declares an empty array of integers and can be used for all primitive data types with String being the addition

arrays can be copied, searched, amd manipulated

### Operators

**Operators Precedence:**

postfix: expr++ expr--
unary: ++expr --expr +expr -expr ~ !
multiplicative: \* / %
additive: + -
shift: << >> >>>
relational: < > <= >= instanceof
equality: == !=
bitwise AND: &
bitwise exclusive OR: ^
bitwise inclusive OR: |
logical AND: &&
logical OR: ||
ternary: ? :
assignment: = += -= *= /= %= &= ^= |= <<= >>= >>>=

Simple Assignment Operator:

=       Simple assignment operator

Arithmetic Operators:
\+       Additive operator (also used for String concatenation)  
\-       Subtraction operator  
\*       Multiplication operator  
/       Division operator  
%       Remainder operator  

Unary Operators:

\+       Unary plus operator; indicates positive value (numbers are positive without this, however)  
\-       Unary minus operator; negates an expression  
++      Increment operator; increments a value by 1  
--      Decrement operator; decrements a value by 1  
!       Logical complement operator; inverts the value of a boolean  

Equality and Relational Operators:
==      Equal to  
!=      Not equal to  
\>       Greater than  
\>=      Greater than or equal to  
<       Less than  
<=      Less than or equal to  

Conditional Operators:
&&      Conditional-AND  
||      Conditional-OR  
?:      Ternary (shorthand for if-then-else statement)  

Type Comparison Operator:

instanceof: Compares an object to a specified type

Bitwise and Bit Shift Operators:

~       Unary bitwise complement  
<<      Signed left shift  
\>>      Signed right shift  
\>>>     Unsigned right shift  
&       Bitwise AND  
^       Bitwise exclusive OR  
|       Bitwise inclusive OR  

### Expressions, Statements, and Blocks

An expression is a construct made up of variables, operators, and method invocations, which are constructed according to the syntax of the language, that evaluates to a single value.

declaration statements and control flow statements. A declaration statement declares a variable and control flow statements regulate the order in which statements get executed

A block is a group of zero or more statements between balanced braces and can be used anywhere a single statement is allowed

### Control Flow Statements

The if-then statement is the most basic of all the control flow statements. It tells your program to execute a certain section of code only if a particular test evaluates to true.

The if-then-else statement provides a secondary path of execution when an "if" clause evaluates to false.

the switch statement can have a number of possible execution paths. A switch works with the byte, short, char, and int primitive data types. also works with enumerated types (discussed in Enum Types), the String class, and a few special classes that wrap certain primitive types: Character, Byte, Short, and Integer (discussed in Numbers and Strings).

The body of a switch statement is known as a switch block. A statement in the switch block can be labeled with one or more case or default labels. The switch statement evaluates its expression, then executes all statements that follow the matching case label.

Each break statement terminates the enclosing switch statement. Control flow continues with the first statement following the switch block. The break statements are necessary because without them, statements in switch blocks fall through

**Questions:**

1. What does “strong typed” mean?
    * Where variables are bound to specific data types, and will result in type errors if types do not match up as expected in the expression.
2. What are the primitive data types?
    * Byte, short, int, long, float, double, boolean, and char

## XKCD: Compiling

[Compiling Reference](https://www.reddit.com/r/explainlikeimfive/comments/233dq5/eli5_what_does_it_mean_to_compile_code/)

**Questions:**

1. Explain to a non-technical friend the difference in how compilation works in Java and JavaScript.
    * Java is translated into ones and zeros the represents the code and that is done by a virtual machine whereas JavaScript can translate the data into the computer language right in the browser
2. Does code compiling mean that it works correctly?
    * No, there can be logic errors in the code

## Reading Java Documentation

[Reference](https://www.dummies.com/category/articles/java-33602/)

**Questions:**

1. How many keywords does Java have?
    * 51
2. How do you print words to the console in Java?
    * `System.out.println("These words in the double quotes print out")`

## Things I Want to Know More About
