# Class401-13 Reading Notes

## Related Data in Spring

[Reference](https://www.baeldung.com/spring-data-rest-relationships)

One-to-Many Relationships

One-to-many relationship is defined with `@OneToMay` and `@ManyToOne` annotations

This is when one row in a table is mapped to multiple rows in another table.

Many to one makes it bidirectional

`mappedBy` property is used to determine which variable is the parent class and which is the child class

`@RestResource` annotation can be used to customize the association resource

**Questions:**

1. Name a few real life examples of “One To Many” relationships.
    * A person having a bunch of phone numbers or a shopping cart with a bunch of items in it. 
2. Given two entities, one named Player and one named Team, if you wanted to create a one to many relationship with those entities which would be the one and which would be the many?
    * The Team would be one and the Player would be many. But it can go either way because the Player (one) could play for many teams (many).
3. Explain one to many relationships to a non-technical friend.
    * One to many is when one main item is associated with a bunch of different things. Like a mom (one) having multiple kids (many).

## Baeldung: Spring Integration Testing

[Reference](https://www.baeldung.com/integration-testing-in-spring)

Integration testing verifies the end-to-end behavior of a system

`@ExtendWith` enables an extension interface where classes can integrate with the JUnit test and this allows the test classes and specifying the extension class to load

*SpringExtension.class* is used to run the spring test

`@ContextConfiguration` is used to load the context configuration and bootstrap the context that the test will use

`@WebAppConfiguration` loads the web application context and by default, looks for the root web app that can be overridden with passing the *value* attribute. It loads all the application beans and controller into the context

`MockMvc` provides support for Spring MVC testing and encapsulates all web application beans and makes them available for testing

`perform()` method will call a GET request method

`andDo(print())` prints the request and response

`andExpect()` will expect the provided argument

`andReturn()` will return an object used to verify something that is not directly achievable by the library

**Questions:**

1. Describe the difference between a unit test and an integration test.
    * A unit test takes results from a single unit where as integration tests takes results from various parts and sources that work in an integrated way.
2. What is the object that provides support for Spring MVC Testing?
    * `MockMvc`
3. What does the “perform()” method do in a Spring integration test?
    * `perform()` method will call a GET request method

## Things I Want to Know More About
