# Class401-05 Reading Notes

## Big O

[Reference](https://codefellows.github.io/common_curriculum/data_structures_and_algorithms/Code_401/class-05/resources/big_oh.html)

Big O notation describes how efficient the program is based off Running Time and Memory space.

* Running time is the amount of time a function needs to complete

* Memory Space is the amount of memory a function needs to store data and instructions

Big O is used is worst case efficiencies for execution.

Space and Time need Input Size, Units of Measurement, Orders of Growth, and Best Case, Worst Case, and Average Case to be properly analyzed

Input Size is the size of the parameter values read by the algorithm. `n` is used to represent the input size. The higher `n` is then there will be an increase to Running Time and Memory Space.

Units of Measurement what is used to measure Time and Space. It uses time in milliseconds, the number of operations executed, and the basic operations executed. For Memory Space, the space needed to hold the code, the input data, the output data, and working space during calculation.

Time and Space Complexity are measured differently and needs to be calculated separately.

Orders of Growth uses input size `n` to and measuring the overall Time and Space requirements.

Constant Complexity: O(1) - when there a return value of a constant value

Logarithmic Complexity: O(lgn) - when there is sorted data calculations; decreases the rate of complexity growth

Linear Complexity: O(n) - used with loops or recursion; size of `n` directly determines the amount of Memory Space and Running Time length

Linearithmic Complexity: O(n*lgn) - used with merge sort or Search through sorted arrays;

Quadratic Complexity: O(n^2) - used with nested loops; need iterative or recursive logic on all values of `n` and then does it again

Cubic Complexity: O(n^3) - used thrice nested loops;

Exponential Complexity: O(2^n) - used with using a subset of data to compare against all possible subsets; ***fibonacci*** sequence is a popular example of this.

Factorial Complexity: O(n!) - used when all possible permutations of a string or array need to be calculated; every possible arrangement of something

Worse Case, Best Case, Average Case uses `n` input to consider how it effects orders of growth. Worse Case is the work possible input size of `n` and runs the longest to account for all the possible inputs of `n`. Best case is best use of the input size and runs the quickest. Average Case is for a random input size and makes a typical assumption about the possible input sizes.

Big O uses the Worst Case for an algorithm. The Order of Growth represents the upper bounds of Time and Space

Big Omega describes the Best Case and uses the lower bounds of Time and Space.

Big Theta describes the Average Case and uses the tight bound of Time and Space.

## Linked List

[Reference](https://codefellows.github.io/common_curriculum/data_structures_and_algorithms/Code_401/class-05/resources/singly_linked_list.html)

Linked List is a sequence of `Nodes` connected to each other by referencing the next `Node`

There are two types, Singly and Doubly. Singly is the number of references a node has and will point to the next node on a linked list. Doubly had two references within a node and points to the next and previous node.

Nodes are individual items that live in a linked list and contains dta for each link.

Next is a property in each node that contains the reference to the next node. 

Head is a reference of type node to the first node in a linked list.

Current is a reference to type node to the node that is currently being looked at. When traverse you can create a new current variable at the head to make sure you are starting from the beginning

Traversing through a list can use `foreach` or `for` loop. The next value in each node shows where the next reference is pointing. Best approach is to use `while` loop because it allows to continually check that the next node in the list is not null. If a node is null, an Exception and the program crashes. The null (empty value) is the end of a list

When adding a node, first ensure that all references to each link are properly assigned then replace the current head. Adding a node to the middle is also possible.

## What is A Linked List Pt1 & Pt2

[Part 1 Reference](https://medium.com/basecs/whats-a-linked-list-anyway-part-1-d8b7e6508b9d)

[Part 2 Reference](https://medium.com/basecs/whats-a-linked-list-anyway-part-2-131d96f71996)

Linked lists are linear data structures and have to be gone through sequentially. (an array is linear)

Data is organized in hashes(dictionaries)

Differences between linked list and arrays is how memory is used in machines. The linked list does not need sequential memory space to store the list; each piece and be stored here or there in memory.

Linked list are dynamic data structures can shrink and grow in memory. There is no set amount of memory needed to exist and the size and shape can change as well as the amount of memory needed.

A node it two parts: the info it has and the reference to the next node. Nothing else

Adding or removing nodes can be as simple as moving around some pointers.

Singly linked list go in one direction. They start at the head and travel to the root until the last node (empty/null)

Doubly linked list point to the next link and the previous link (it has two references). It is helpful to traverse back or forth.

A Circular linked list does not have a node at the end with a null value. It has a tail instead of the head and the node after the tail is the beginning of the list. A singly linked list and a doubly linked list can turn into a circular linked list.

Big O in linked list use O(n) and O(1) equations.

O(1) takes constant time or memory no matter how big or small the input is. O(n) is linear and as the input grows the space and time needed will grow linearly.

To grow a linked list  at the beginning **IN THIS ORDER:**

1. Find the Head
2. Make a new node and set pointer to current first node
3. rearrange head's pointer to point a new node

Grow a linked list in at the End **IN THIS ORDER:**

1. Find node to change the pointer of
2. Create new node and set pointer to null
3. direct the preceding node's pointer to new node

Searching in linked list is SLOW. Anything that requires a lot traversal, iteration, or quick index-level access does not work for linked list.

Helpful when the size of the list is unknown and want to add or remove thing quickly without random access

## Things I Want to Know More About
