# Class401-26 Reading Notes

## Android Fundamentals

[Reference](https://developer.android.com/guide/components/fundamentals)

The apps can be written using Kotlin, Java, and C++

An .apk file is a package that contains the contents needed at runtime

An .abb has all the content needed for an Android app project with metadata that is not needed at runtime; it cannot be installed on android devices

Every Android app has it's own security sandbox

Android system uses the *principle of least privilege*, meaning it will only use the components needed to do the work and nothing more than that. The app can only access what it has permission to access

To share data with other apps, it can have the same Linux user ID so they can access each other's files but they can also be assigned the same certificate. An app can also request permission to access device data (location, camera, bluetooth) from the user

App components are the building blocks of an app and each component is an entry point to the app.

The four types of App Components are:

1. Activities
2. Services
3. Broadcast Receivers
4. Content Providers

and each type had a specific purpose and lifecycle that defines how the components is created and destroyed



**Questions:**

1. What is an Intent in Android Studios? Give some fresh examples of when you might use it.
    * An asynchronous message that activates Activities, Services, and Broadcast Receivers by binding individual components to each other at runtime. It can be used to send emails, view messages, display images, give a notice to the user, etc.
2. Describe an Activity in your own word.
    * It is where the app allows interaction with the user.

## Things I Want to Know More About
